This cycle has been very much
infrastructure capex driven.
>> I do think you favor tech here.
>> We're bullish on the S&P, but we're
probably even more bullish on this rally
broadening out.
>> The basic thrust of the market is to go
higher.
>> Missing out on the upside is like
participating in the downside.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, facing down higher
prices. Crude bouncing following another
round of strikes on Iran as Fed
officials are bracing for a jump in the
latest inflation data. Earnings from
Costco to Best Buy offering a read on
the US consumer. That consumer is
getting squeezed.
>> And we get those earnings later today.
Best Buy before the bell, Costco after
the bell. You know, there's been a
dissonance because all of the negativity
has come with data that has otherwise
been really resilient. And the reason
why we've seen inflation [music] be
sticky is because consumers have been
able to absorb this. Are we sitting
starting [music] to see fraying around
the edges? And that is what I think will
be interesting from Best Buy and Costco.
Do they show what we're hearing from
some other places? Top end of the
consumer still spending, lower end of
the consumer looking for bargains,
pulling back.
>> Energy prices multi-year highs. Check
out mortgage rates 6.5% PCE expected
[music] to spike today and the Fed stuck
between a rock and a hard place.
>> Rock and hard place. So, is this
administration I was pretty shocked
yesterday. [music] The Treasury
Secretary sitting down with the
president at the cabinet meeting decided
to use the T-word when he talked [music]
about prices. Right now he says it's
transitory and things like gasoline will
come down when this war ends. And right
now, Jonathan,
>> [music]
>> it looks like actually the ceasefire is
barely holding on when it comes to the
conflict.
>> some time on that. Let's bring up the
crude [music] price. Brent, WTI, check
it out. We're up this morning by not
even 2%.
And what we've seen overnight is the
second round of strikes so far this week
and zero progress towards making a deal.
Yet, this is the move on crude this
morning. That's nothing. If you just
looked at that [music] waking up today,
you wouldn't have a clue what happened
overnight.
>> Yet, the fact that actually there were
active strikes that Iran Iranian drones
were shot down out of the sky. [music]
The way you could potentially read this,
if you want to be really positive, is
the US is essentially escorting ships or
trying to keep ships flowing on the
margins through the Strait of Hormuz
that aren't necessarily Iranian. So, at
least something is getting through. It
is leaky. On the flip side, the fact
that there is kinetic warfare, but
everyone's saying there's nothing to see
here, gives you a sense of the cognitive
dissonance.
>> But, the red lines are being blurred.
And what the United States is doing is
they are responding to Iranian [music]
attacks. This is not necessarily
deterrence. It is defense in that
nature. And at some point, you have to
basically ask the administration, what
would constitute at this point then an
end of the ceasefire? Because you're
acting like you This is pretty defensive
[music] in the Strait of Hormuz.
>> That's the energy story. 2 minutes into
the show, let's bring up the tech trade.
Salesforce versus a very, very different
story coming from Snowflake. And the
opening up of a discussion about winners
and losers. Snowflake up today, check it
out, not a typo, up by close to 40% in
the pre-market. Salesforce down by close
to two.
>> Yeah. So, this goes to the forward look,
right? And the idea that we're looking
at a Snowflake [music]
potentially partnering with amazon.com
for a pretty big deal using some of
Intel's chips. This question around
exactly how they're going to adjust and
adapt to the AI era. Meanwhile,
Salesforce actually disappointed and it
was a small disappointment on its
earnings, but still a little bit of
disappointment gives people a little bit
of agita about the road ahead. They have
to prove [music]
they have a very big moat around them
that prevents themselves from getting
disrupted out of business, [music] from
people doing it themselves with all of
their little programming bots. Because
essentially that is the fear.
>> Dan [music] Ives, 6:30 Eastern Time,
joining us on this program to break down
the software trade. Coming up this hour,
we'll also catch up with Bob Doll of
Crossmark as equities pull back from
record highs. General Karen Gibson
[music] of Academy as new strikes test
the US around ceasefire and Kay Herr of
JP Morgan Asset Management as the Fed
awaits a fresh read on inflation. We
begin this hour with the US striking
Iranian military targets for the second
time in just 3 days. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington for
the latest. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, US
official characterized this latest round
of military strikes as being defensive
in nature after Iran launched several
drones at commercial ships in the Strait
of Hormuz. It comes after just yesterday
President Trump maintained that no
country will have formal control over
the Strait in any potential deal as the
waterway remains one of those top points
of contention in the ongoing talks. The
president also added that the US would
quote watch over ships that are
transiting through though declined to
give specifics on how the US is thinking
about ensuring freedom of navigation. At
this point, the White House says it's
not satisfied yet with the progress in
the ongoing dialogue though has appeared
to confirm that the US is pursuing this
phased approach where we would see the
Strait of Hormuz prioritized to be
reopened and only then formal
conversations about potential curbs on
Iran's nuclear program. But as we try to
glean any details on what is in this
potential memorandum of understanding, I
asked President Trump yesterday during
his cabinet meeting about whether or not
the US is considering easing sanctions
as Iran pushes for financial relief as
part of any deal, but he told me that's
not happening anytime soon.
>> Is the US considering easing sanctions
on Iran to allow Iran to sell its crude
to market?
>> No, we're not talking about any easing
of sanctions or giving money. No
sanctions, no money, no nothing. We have
control of money that they claim is
theirs.
Uh we'll keep control of that money.
>> John, I also asked President Trump
whether or not he was expecting Congress
to pass a federal gas tax holiday as the
administration faces pressure when it
comes to retail gasoline prices and we
get closer to November and the midterm
elections. He told me it's something
that they might talk about, but
ultimately he wants to give negotiations
1 to 2 more weeks in his words before he
thinks about that.
>> Tana Gozden with the latest down in
Washington. Tana, thank you. We'll catch
up with you in the next hour. More to
discuss down in Washington, D.C. It's a
complex, multi-dimensional negotiation
between two, maybe three, four, five
sides across the Middle East. Let's pick
out two dimensions of that. Let's start
with one. Iran wants to control the
Strait and the US wants free passage.
Two, Iran wants to keep the uranium and
the US wants it either destroyed or sent
to the US. And I have seen little
progress on either of those two major
aspects of this very complex negotiation
in the last few weeks.
>> That's the reason why when you hear this
administration says 95% done, just these
two major sticking points that were the
essential reason for the war are still
remain to be negotiating. From the
market's point of view though, I wonder
whether that actually matters. Is it
just the idea that there actually is
some movement through the Strait of
Hormuz agnostic to exactly the method or
the longevity of that? That's the sort
of interesting aspect maybe of what
we're seeing playing into markets.
>> But that just got a whole lot harder as
of last night because OFAC decided to
sanction the Persian Gulf Strait
Authority. Basically, the tolling booth
the IRGC is using to collect these
tolls. So, if you're a trader that's
been maybe trying to go through whatever
bank this is in China or Hong Kong with
this Bitcoin to get your vessel through
for $2 million.
Treasury is basically saying we will
find you and now we're going to come
after you.
>> Equities are smiling, not blinking.
We're down just 0.15% on the S&P. Here's
the view from Wall Street. Bob Doll of
Crossmark Global Investments writing
investors are positioned for an imminent
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz, which
increases the short-term risk for asset
markets. Bob joins us now for more. Bob,
into the studio. Good to see you, sir.
Good morning.
>> Same here.
>> Is there a credible bear case for the
stock market and what is it?
>> It's good news is good news, bad news is
good news, no news is good news.
>> [laughter]
>> What do you need to know?
Look, you know the story. It's all about
earnings.
Earnings expectations for this year are
15% higher than they were at the start
of the year. That's not a 15% growth,
that's 15 increased growth rate.
And the market's only up 10, so PEs are
down five since the first of the year.
Hard hard to throw mud at that.
>> Some people throw mud at it by simply
saying it can't last, that this is
backward looking, it's not forward
looking, and it hasn't fully adjusted to
some of the pressures that we're seeing
overseas and the supply constraints.
What do you say to that?
>> I say back to earnings. If you're
telling me earnings estimates are not
going up any further, I fully agree with
you. But as long as earnings are moving
up at this pace and the Fed is not
antagonistic to the stock market, stocks
will move higher.
>> So, why is there this incredible
earnings boom if you're not seeing it in
some of the consumer data? I mean,
you're seeing resilience, but you aren't
seeing this kind of boom condition, and
you get a lot of commentary about people
feeling pretty crappy.
>> Great question. I don't think first
quarter earnings answer that question
very well.
Top line growth has been just fine,
thank It's margins that have exploded.
Now, is that because companies haven't
had a chance to say my profits are up so
much, where am I going to spend money to
increase my business, and therefore it's
all gone to the bottom line? I think
there's some of that, but I'm with you.
The consumer seems to be fraying,
particularly at the low end.
>> Does it matter? Does it matter to the
index? Certainly matters to a lot of
people, but given the composition of the
S&P 500, does it matter? And I know
that's an uncomfortable question to
really answer directly, but do you think
it does?
>> Yeah, it's it's the right question. It
matters less than it used to, can I say
it that way, because of the percentage
of the market that's related to the
stuff outside the US. Technology, I
mean, who cares what happens in the
Strait of Hormuz? To some degree, the
technology sector might be saying.
>> It sounds so complacent, but then you
see the capex intentions of these
companies, and it's the numbers are
astronomical, and they are driving GDP
to a greater extent. We had a
conversation just this week about
whether the Federal Reserve can really
slow this thing down. Apollo's Torsten
Slok saying the Fed is fighting FOMO,
it's fighting more than that, it's
fighting price insensitive investment
from some of the biggest, richest
companies on the planet.
>> Yeah, essentially is Amazon or Microsoft
going to stop spending because the Fed
it raises rates by 50 basis points. The
answer resoundingly is absolutely not.
Key question, when does it actually
matter to the physical world because
this is a very physical process to build
this stuff out. Suddenly that does enter
into the inflation picture. That's why I
said, you know, this idea of you know,
fantastic earnings momentum is maybe
fear of surging prices because
ultimately we end up in a place where
the real pain comes from inflation.
>> We're raising a lot of money and pushing
it through a supply constrained economy
that's gone through several supply
shocks that cost goods, labor, and now
energy. Is the end result just high
prices?
>> I think so and that we're on to the to
me the real problem, it's inflation.
I know it's not 6% but it's not the
Fed's two. It's you know, 3.8 at the
headline level last 12 months, 2.8
ex-food and energy. Rising, that's just
not good news and the stock market seems
to look the other direction for now.
>> So the Strait of Hormuz does matter
though, it just matters to different
people.
>> I think it does. You know, my view is
and we can talk about everything we're
hearing. I think it's going to be a
two-part deal. The first will be let's
get the Strait open and we'll make some
concessions to make that happen is my
guess and then we'll have a multi-month
period on the uranium and that's where I
think it falls apart.
>> The issue is the concession the Iranians
would be willing to take from the United
States to open up the Strait of Hormuz
is the United States red line. It's
about enrichment of uranium. So it feels
like they're talking past each other
because the red lines are not moving.
>> Agreed but I think that if they separate
the two, there's a chance we get some
solution around the Strait, punt on the
uranium issue, deal with it later and
then it falls apart.
>> So, what do you do? I mean, given the
fact that ultimately you do see the
potential for bad news, it has not paid
to hedge against that. It has not paid
to be skeptical. It has not paid to
really know more information, it seems
like. This idea of the less you know,
the better off you are, which is
something that Chris Fron was talking
about. Do you go just into big tech and
avoid bonds? Because ultimately
inflation is a bigger concern.
>> First of all,
context. I believe we're in a high-risk
bull market. Bull market means you got
to be invested, cuz the path of least
resistance is higher. Why? Earnings,
earnings, earnings. And And a Fed that
is not antagonistic, at least yet. The
high-risk part says, but if something
goes wrong, the decline is not going to
be 2 and 1/2%. It's going to be a lot
worse than that. And that's what I'm
watching every day, fully invested.
Where are we invested? We're trying to
go where um trying to more reactionary
than usual. That is to say, in this
environment, letting some semiconductor
stocks go, not the whole thing, just
bits and pieces, and buy stuff that has
okay fundamentals that's a whole lot
cheaper. That's the trade I'm playing.
Maybe 2 weeks from now semis will have
corrected, we'll be buying them back and
selling them whatever we bought in the
meantime.
>> why they haven't corrected much, cuz
everyone's just waiting to buy the
semis.
>> Bingo.
>> Can I just ask you, what is an
antagonistic Federal Reserve? A Fed that
drops its easing bias? A Fed that talks
about hiking 25 basis points? When does
it become so-called antagonistic?
>> The fact that the market hasn't begun to
think it's antagonistic blows my mind.
It's cuz of earnings.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm sure you're going to get that
question now.
>> But But But But you're absolutely right.
They they This next meeting they have to
move to neutral, if not to a tightening
bias. Maybe it's neutral bias next
meeting, tightening bias, and then we'll
have to see if they're going to raise
rates. Market will not like that at all.
>> Bob, I was going to say, it always is.
All the best. Thanks for being here.
Thank you, buddy. Bob Doll, Crossmark
Investments, features this morning,
doing okay. Down a few tenths of 1% on
the S&P 500 this morning. We'll have an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg Brief. Bonnie Quinn has more.
Hey, Bonnie.
>> Hey, good morning, John. For the second
time this week, the US carrying out air
strikes on Iranian military sites.
Officials saying the attacks were
defensive and intended to maintain the
existing ceasefire. The attacks coming
hours after the US denied an Iranian
report of a peace deal.
Snowflake shares surging in the
premarket. The software maker giving a
stronger than expected annual outlook.
Also signing a $6 billion multi-year
agreement to use Amazon's cloud services
[music] and chips.
American Airlines CEO Robert Isom says
travel demand held up in the first
quarter. Speaking with Lisa, Isom saying
both business and leisure travel has
improved despite global economic
uncertainty.
>> Year-over-year revenue improved 10-11%
and we're forecasting revenue to to
improve 15%, you know, year-over-year in
a year where
price of fuel has spiked 4-5 billion
dollars. We're still projecting the same
type of profitability that we had last
year.
That means good things.
>> Isom also saying American intends to
grow its premium seating at twice the
rate of its main cabins. And that is
your blueberry brief, John.
>> And Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate it.
Great exchange yesterday. It's just
amazing to see rock bottom consumer
confidence and then hear the words
tremendous demand come out of another
airline.
>> The airline industry is a perfect
[music] example of the K-shaped economy
because you have a very much tale of two
consumers [music] and you're seeing one
do very well, one not so much and for a
lot of the big players, it just doesn't
matter.
>> Said it a few times. It's the down to
airline's economy. Half the country is
struggling and half the country thinks
it's group one and they're lining up for
the lounge.
>> I think everyone thinks they're group
one. I think that everyone feels like
they deserve it, which I understand.
>> one, Bonnie. You're group one. You're
group one.
>> Usually four or five.
>> If there's more than
five people [music] in the line for
something you're lining up for, if
there's a line, none of you are group
one. All right? Up next on the program,
diplomatic deadlock.
>> Iran is very much
intent. They want very much to make a
deal. So far, they haven't gotten there.
We're not satisfied with it, but
uh we will be. We will be. Either that
or we'll have to just finish the job.
They're negotiating on fumes.
>> Just for the record, I'm in the line.
And I'm not group one.
>> about to ask you that.
>> Just want to clarify that, okay? Just
want to make sure that's clarified. I'm
not.
>> You're not group one.
>> no.
>> [laughter]
>> Let's be very clear. You know, we sort
of lost track of what exclusivity
actually is.
>> You're pre-boarding.
>> Like you understand.
>> You know what I mean?
>> Exactly. Pre-boarding.
>> You know.
>> Okay. You're pre-boarding.
>> going to the airport this morning, if
there's a line for the lounge, there's
nothing exclusive about it, right?
>> I won't wait on a line for a lounge. I
refuse. I'd rather go get coffee or food
somewhere else.
>> It's it's a group boarding experience. I
love it.
>> I'm pleased to have cleared that up.
[music] Up next, we'll catch up with
General Karen Gibson of Academy
Securities live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
It's tons of earnings [music] today,
stacked with retailers. Check it out.
Dollar Tree a little bit later this
morning, 6:30 Eastern time. Costco,
[music]
The Gap after the close. Best Buy in the
next hour. Look out for all of that.
Going into PC data at 8:30 Eastern time.
The scores into it look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 looking to
squeeze out a loss of 2/10 [music] of 1%
on the S&P 500 after just about
squeezing out a gain in yesterday's
session. On the Nasdaq up by down by
0.4% [music] on the Russell, -0.2. Check
out the bond market yields shaping up as
follows going into the 8:30 inflation
data just a little bit higher at the
front end of the curve up by two. 4.06%
[music] and a new voice, Jefferson, and
another one, Cook, out of the Federal
Reserve voicing their concerns about
higher inflation.
>> Yeah, Lisa Cook actually coming out
pretty aggressively and saying if you
don't [music] see any disinflation,
should be inclined to hike rates. My
question listening to all the Fed speak,
where exactly are the people who [music]
want to maintain an easing bias? Other
than I mean who are they? Please stand
up. I mean ultimately we saw Governor
Myron be the one stalwart voice. He's
off. He's not at the Fed anymore.
>> true.
>> Who is that person?
>> I think Chairman Powell should do an
interview. Now, Governor Powell.
>> Yeah, I agree.
>> Well, then who
>> I mean who who actually
and if they didn't want that why didn't
they remove [music] them?
>> There's a sense that some people believe
this anyway. There's a sense that they
wanted to maintain the easing bias for
the incoming sense share. So, he had the
decision [music] to make and that it
wasn't down to Chairman Powell. So,
maybe that was the agreement the
agreement because to your point very
difficult to find a Fed official right
now who actually wanted to keep it.
>> So, to me then how does it service
forward guidance? If it is ultimately a
way of signaling to one another, you
[music] know, what about the rest of us
who are in group seven?
>> I'm with you. Group A or nine or no
group at all. You know, that exists too.
Everybody else
Yeah, been there.
>> [laughter]
>> Nice seat assignment.
>> Yeah, the roof.
>> That was sport. Brent crude [music] this
morning up by 1.7% WTI up by 1.65. Under
Savannah's this morning a diplomatic
debt clock.
>> The street's going to be open to
everybody. We'll watch over it, but
nobody's going to control it. This part
of the negotiation that we have with
Iran is very much
intent. They want very much to make a
deal. So far they haven't gotten there.
We're not satisfied with it, but
we will be. We will be either that or
we'll have to just finish the job.
They're negotiating on fumes.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran exchanging fresh strikes
with the White House saying little
progress has been made towards a deal.
General Karen Gibson of Academy
Securities writing I suspect and hope
negotiations may be more advanced than
either side is letting on at least
publicly despite the rhetoric and in
many ways the action too. General Gibson
joins us now for more. General, welcome
to the program. Where do you suspect we
have made some progress?
>> Well, I I think that if we had a
complete lack of progress, we would be
seeing more aggressive actions on the
part of the United States. Whether that
was
um additional significant sanctions or
strikes beyond the ones we've been
doing. You know, I maintain that the
ceasefire while fragile is still holding
despite the strikes that we've had over
the last 3 days. What what characterizes
these strikes is that they are very
narrowly specific to aggressive actions
that Iran was alleged to be making in
and around the Strait of Hormuz, Bandar
Abbas, whether that was vessels laying
mines that would potentially constrain
navigation and traffic or one-way
drones. And it's important to remember
that even under a ceasefire, you do not
lose the inherent right of self-defense.
So, if we were not making progress in
negotiations, we might see broader
strikes further somewhere else in Iran
that more clearly violated the
ceasefire, but I think these are very
defense-related, self-defense-related,
and within the bounds of the ceasefire.
>> If these are defense-related, then is
the United States doing anything in
terms of deterrence when it comes to
Iran?
>> Well, I think our presence acts as a
deterrent as well. I mean, the fact that
if Iran were to, you know, out of the
blue strike some kind of Gulf
infrastructure or civilian targets or
something else that was in the broader
Gulf region against one of our partners,
I think it would be certainly I would
expect the United States to take some
broad action, probably additional
punishing airstrikes. And Iran knows
that we can do that and that we're
prepared to do that, won't hesitate to
do that. And that in itself is a form of
deterrence.
>> Given these recent clashes, do you
understand where the red lines are
in terms of kinetic warfare between Iran
and the United States?
>> Yeah, so again, you never give up the
right of self-defense even under a
ceasefire. And so, if these were
activities that were identified that
looked as though they would threaten
navigation or directly threaten our
naval assets and air assets that are
there right off the Strait of Hormuz.
That's permitted. I think that's an
important distinction. And even Iran's
counterstrike
in which they launched assets towards
Kuwait. They claim to have shot down one
of our predators. I don't believe it.
It's always kind of a given that they're
going to exaggerate for their own
domestic audiences. Um those are I think
probably within the bounds of the
ceasefire. I'd make two more points
there. One, if we were striking dual-use
military civil infrastructure elsewhere
in Iran that wasn't directly related to
the navigation in the straits, that's
probably not within the bounds of the
ceasefire. Again, back to if Iran were
to strike say Fujairah again in in the
Emirates, their port outside the Strait
of Hormuz, that would probably not be
within the bounds of the ceasefire. The
last point I'd make is that a ceasefire
is not a real physical thing. It's a
construct that's developed between the
two negotiating sides. By policy makers
or leaders. And it's really up to them
to decide that a ceasefire is no longer
holding. Whether it's because of a
single shot across the bow or something
far more extensive.
>> General, you said something there that I
thought was really important that Iran
obviously exaggerates for its audience.
The US also tried to jawbone markets.
And this is one reason why markets have
tuned out. Who are the respective
parties trying to speak to and how is
that muddying the message?
>> That's a terrific point. I think you
know, both in both sides in in probably
any conflict, there I think the leaders
are speaking particularly in Iran to
their own domestic
audience. They need to appear strong.
They need to make the United States look
weak. They want to make it look as
though we are the ones that are about to
give and and concede something. You
know, that strategic narrative is
actually also an area where we're
competing. They are speaking directly to
their domestic audience. Our president
is speaking to our domestic audience,
but there are also broader market
audiences that both are speaking to. And
I think we have to be really careful
about taking literally everything that's
said by a spokesperson from either
government. There's often truth within
it, but then there will be other things
that are said that are hyperbolic or
again intended to calm or influence
markets, to shape public opinion, and to
influence the other side.
>> We've been wrestling with that for
months. General appreciate it. General
Karen Gibson there of Academy
Securities. That was the question. We
know what the audiences are. What do you
trust? And that's the problem.
>> Yeah, in this world of disinformation, a
lot of people have tuned out. And that's
the reason why the moves are getting
smaller and smaller as people say,
"Earnings, earnings, earnings." Which is
what essentially we heard from Bob Doll
earlier today.
>> Stocks down a few tenths of 1% on the
S&P 500. Fresh strikes overnight. Check
out crude Brent and WTI. We're up this
morning by close to 2%, not even a
little bit earlier this morning.
>> I understand the market's focused on
earnings, but when you're trying to
understand [music] what the teams are
negotiating, it's why I look at what is
happening. And we continuously see, I
know that no one wants to say it's a
break in the ceasefire. We continue to
see clashes, [music] and at some point
the red lines just evaporate.
>> Twice in 3 days we've seen that. Up next
on the program, we'll catch up with this
guy, Dan Ives of Wedbush on the winners
and losers emerging in the software
space.
Coming up a little bit later this
morning, check out this interview. 60
minutes away catching up with the BNY
CEO, [music] Robin Vince. Looking
forward to this. Needs to talk about the
Trump accounts and the fact the stock
hit a record high earlier on this week.
Robin, about 60 minutes away. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 this morning look
like this. Equity futures pulling back
by just 0.2% [music]
on the Nasdaq down by 0.4.
In the bond market, twos, tens, 30s
shaping up as follows. [music] Twos up
by two basis points this morning, 4.06%
PCE 2 hours away. And this is the
problem right here. Energy prices
spiking higher this year is producing
[music] higher inflation and pushing the
Fed into a corner. A Fed that is
sounding more and more hawkish by the
day.
>> The data points this today are going to
be really important for this. On [music]
one hand, you have an oil prices a bit
higher, and you have poor PCE, and then
you have earnings. And the idea of
Costco and Best Buy, and if they come
out robust the way [music] that we've
seen some earnings come through, well,
then it can be stickier because people
are saying, "Oof, I don't like that, but
I am still buying." And that is sort of
the conundrum for the Federal Reserve
that they don't want to have to see, but
it seems like they're trying to wrap
their heads around.
>> Such an awkward, crazy dynamic right now
to see consumer confidence at record
lows.
Coming from you, Mitch. Why do you
believe that? Okay, but still [music]
record lows and a stock market record
highs.
>> It has to do with inflation. The idea
that people hate inflation. People feel
like it is a tax on their paychecks.
They see inflation prices going up more
than they see their paychecks going up.
That is just psychology and how it
always has translated. So, right now,
people see that we are in a higher
inflation moment. At the same time, that
is very good for stocks as long as it's
not runaway because ultimately they can
charge more. And guess what? Their
margins are growing, so they're probably
charging a little bit extra. You put
[music] these things together, you get a
surging stock market, you get confidence
falling off a cliff, and you've got very
confused by officials.
>> Well, we have the Conference Board as
well not coming in too well when it
comes to how consumers are feeling. Plus
[music] University of Michigan, plus the
polling. To Alistair's point, everyone
hates inflation. Why I was struck by the
Treasury Secretary saying yesterday to
say that it's [music] going to be
transitory. This administration really
does need to hope it's going to be
transitory before the midterm elections.
>> [music]
>> At the same time, what do we hear from
everyone? The consumer still is
resilient. They're complaining, but at
the moment they're still spending.
[music]
>> Still spending at the headline level,
and that's driving this stock market,
too. Earnings, earnings, earnings. How
many times have we been told that
[music] in this equity market? Your
stock market just off record highs this
morning. 3 hours away from the opening
bell. Let's get you some single names
[music] and morning movers. Yuh-Hwan Ha
has more. Hey, Yuh-Hwan Ha.
>> Hi, John. I did not expect Snowflake to
be the star of earnings yesterday, but
here we are. The stock is soaring
[music] at nearly 40% in the pre-market
after it raised its full-year outlook
and said it [music] signed a massive $6
billion deal with Amazon Web Services.
But, as you can see, this marks [music]
a clear sign of relief for investors who
have grown increasingly worried about AI
disrupting the software industry, but
Snowflake [music]
is signaling the opposite here with
usage for its new AI coding tool
doubling
>> [music]
>> from the prior quarter. Turning to Dell
shares, they are also rising in the
pre-market up 4% after landing a nearly
$10 billion Pentagon [music] contract to
help streamline Microsoft software
across the US [music] military, but the
timing here is notable because this name
reports after the bell today and AI
server demand will be closely [music]
watched. Analysts expect sales in that
category surge more than 600% [music]
in the fiscal first quarter and they
expect that will drive a [music] revenue
beat. And we end on Marvell.
Those shares are falling nearly [music]
3% in the pre-market even after the chip
maker posted a beat and a raise on what
they're calling exceptional AI demand.
But, with Marvell shares up some 130%
year-to-date, this may have [music] just
been a story of high expectations, John.
>> Yuh-Hwan Ha, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yuh-Hwan Ha in the
next hour. On our radar this morning,
the US and Iran exchanging fresh strikes
near the Strait of Hormuz. US forces
shooting down four Iranian drones bound
for a commercial ship. A US official
saying the ceasefire remains intact.
Elsewhere, Wall Street's biggest banks
are calling for another banner quarter
for their trading desk. Bank of America
CEO Brian Moynihan and the JP Morgan
boss Jamie Dimon both expecting
double-digit revenue growth after
posting record hauls in the first
quarter. And finally, Salesforce and
Snowflake reporting earnings in a key
read on the software sector. Snowflake
shares skyrocketing after the earnings
topped analyst estimates and it signed a
$6 billion cloud deal with Amazon.
Salesforce edging lower after its
outlook fell short. It's the winners and
losers in the software space.
>> Just one chart, there you go. This
explains the the software story of 2026.
The reason why you're not seeing
Salesforce CRM down more is because it's
already down some 30% so far in the past
number of months. So, we're already
seeing some pretty big declines. Prove
it. Show me the money. Show me your path
ahead in an era of AI. That has been the
story. It's not just the miss for
Salesforce in revenues for the for the
second quarter. It's also not showing a
path forward that is credible enough to
people. They did show that their agent
force is really gaining a lot of steam.
They did show promise there, but it's
not enough to convince people that
they've got the moat around them that
Snowflake seems to be developing with
their partnership with amazon.com.
>> And this is the moment to provide some
hot guidance. That's the problem. And if
you're in the software space, you need
to keep providing it quarter on quarter
on quarter on quarter to disprove the
thesis out there at the moment and
providing a lukewarm
kind of cold forecast not going to get
it done.
>> And actually not breaking out some of
the data in the same kind of granular
way that you have in the past, which
also is something that came out of
Salesforce. Also giving people a little
bit of skepticism about exactly how to
move forward. It hasn't been an easy
time for Marc Benioff. He's been really
struggling to try to prove the story of
why software will still hold the same
kind of high margin revenues that has in
the past in an era of commoditized bots.
>> Dan Ives of Wedbush maintaining his 325
price target on Salesforce and raising
his year-end forecast for Snowflake to
280, writing there is growing
speculation that enterprise software
budgets have started to shift towards AI
initiatives, cannibalizing software
spend. But these results represented an
important gut punch to the AI ghost
trade. Dan joins us now for more. Dan,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> What is separating the winners and the
losers right now in the space?
>> Look, I think I mean and we did a great
job talking about it comes down to
monetization
of AI. And then we look at started off
Palantir
then you saw Datadog. Snowflake I view
as really a seminal quarter for the
software.
>> Just describe what they do and why
they're in the sweet spot right now.
>> think about the data layer, what this is
really showing is LLMs is the models are
ultimately going to be deployed, you
know, the data warehouse and who the
middle layer. As companies go down the
use case path
you need a Snowflake. So, the point is
is that you're trying to out find
companies in the second, third, fourth
derivative who are actually going to
benefit. You have chip players over
here, you have the hyperscalers over
here. In the middle is a Palantir, is a
Snowflake, is a MongoDB. And I think
what this shows that called the AI ghost
trade, you can't just paint every
company with the same brush saying that
Anthropic's going to destruct software.
Snowflake's basically saying you know,
this is a Jalen Brunson-like quarter.
>> Just to sort of frame this in a more
comprehensive way. When you take a look
at Salesforce versus Snowflake
how do I identify a moat that is enough
for a software company to be sustainable
in an AI era?
>> Yeah, and Benioff with back against the
wall, right? And you don't have 150,000
customers. Now you have to show Asian
Forest clearly is what I view as a
pretty big step in the right direction,
but we're still talking 3, 4% revenue.
It's not significantly moving the
needle. Now you guys show over the next
two, three, four quarters that they're
able to monetize 15 20% of the customer
base and that is right now I wouldn't
call it a race against time, but that's
why there's so much pressure on
Salesforce, pressure on Oracle, pressure
on Adobe. Look what happened to Intuit.
And I think that's why it's investors
winners bracket, losers bracket.
CrowdStrike, Palo Alto winners bracket
on cybersecurity, Zscaler obviously got
put in the loser bracket.
>> trying to figure out if there's some
sort of generalities we can mean that we
can make about what these brackets of
the winners look like and what these
brackets of the losers. I mean I can
have the Lisa bought do my taxes, which
is why into it struggling. You can
potentially have different kinds of
homegrown bots do a lot of the different
functionality. You can't have somebody
manage your cloud data in a
comprehensive way that way that
snowflake is going to do in tandem with
Amazon Web Services. So is there some
kind of characteristic of what the
winning feature really is for for
software today?
>> It's one word. It's data. I mean data is
the new oil, the new gold. And who has
control over that data? That's what's
going to separate winners from the
losers. Snowflake front and center on
data. Palantir front and center on data.
LLM's the models, they're not going to
commoditize data. They could commoditize
piece of software. We see a UIPath and
some others. You see it on Intuit. So
that's why investors are trying to
figure out which bracket. If you're in
this bracket, stocks up 30-35% and I
think going higher. On the other side
like a Salesforce, they need now to
prove it over the next 6-9 months. And
Benioff used to be a Mount Rushmore, you
know, obviously at the top of the
mountain. This is I think for the first
time a true test. I think they'll
ultimately succeed, but this is
definitely, you know, pressure
environment.
>> So for Snowflake, if it was a Jalen
Brunson quarter, was for Salesforce,
this like a James Harden quarter?
>> Oof. I would and that maybe that'll be
hard a little too harsh in the you know,
but I'd say
>> You just said he has 6 months to prove
himself.
>> Yeah, look, I'd say it's it's one where
if you look at Salesforce right now,
they're they're in a situation where
let's go it's a Cleveland Cavaliers
situation where, you know, you had
definitely green shoots, but now you got
to prove yourself out. And I think
Benioff understands the challenge there,
what they need to do, but it comes down
to investors need to see execution,
monetization. That's going to be front
and center.
>> What wouldn't you touch in tech right
now?
>> What What What to me, I think you want
>> sell? What would you avoid?
>> You want to continue to own chips. You
want to continue to own software. I
think the areas like if I look at like
where Adobe plays, Intuit, I think IT
services is areas you want to, you know,
right now I think avoid in terms of, you
know, some of those components. And I
think it's really it's the legacy names,
specifically in software and
infrastructure, that you don't think
that they're going to be able to turn
around. I think it is It's truly a stock
picker's market in terms of what we're
seeing here play out.
>> Can we finish on Tesla? SpaceX IPO later
this year. It's going to be a
blockbuster, massive numbers we're
talking about here. And then an
additional sideline conversation
whether Tesla becomes one with SpaceX.
What do you think about that as an
analyst?
>> I think that is We talked about it as
the no-brainer move. We think 80 to 85%
chance that we're sitting here a year
from now, SpaceX and Tesla have gone
down the aisle in terms of marriage
because to me that is one
in SpaceX it clearly being from an IPO
perspective. Yeah, the XAI, you know,
integrated there. But when it comes to
Tesla from a data perspective, from AI,
from an engineering cross-pollination, I
think that's the grand vision for Musk.
And I I just continue to view this is a
step process, but I think that the the,
you know, extremely high chance that
that's a merge.
>> What does SpaceX get out of it?
>> Well, for them you get the data, you get
the engineering, you get ultimately what
I view as autonomous physical AI
combined with what SpaceX bring
obviously on the space and when it comes
to Starlink and the foundation. And
look, they're already is
cross-pollination between Tesla and
SpaceX. But I think this would really be
more of a of an official sort of
combination. I think it's all part part
of the grand vision of Musk in terms of
he's almost building out his own just
like Nvidia and the Godfather they're
making stakes and companies. Musk has
almost done it you know really step by
step here.
>> Dan is going to say yeah. He always says
thank you say Dan after that. F what
bush. You like that didn't you?
What would you avoid? And he just
started listing things he find.
>> Yeah, what would you what would you
avoid? I absolutely buy chips. So thank
you. Yeah, can I just say that Tesla
owes Ferrari a thank you.
>> Go on.
>> Because when Ferrari comes out with
their $640,000
car that was mocked roundly around this
table I concede. Everyone pointed to the
high-end Tesla and how good it was
relatively speaking and it was only a
$100,000. It was the best marketing play
for Tesla you could ever imagine.
>> only one person I saw that said they
liked this car.
>> Me.
>> Ian Bremmer. Well, no you were just
trying to be controversial.
>> he say he liked it?
>> He He just didn't think it was that bad.
Let me I can do a find a tweet but he He
was like no he was like I think it's
like a good looking car for an EV. The
issue is would you be willing to pay
$650,000?
>> not complex as a standalone vehicle as a
car it's fine. Right? We can agree on
that. As a Ferrari absolutely not.
$650,000
absolutely not. Right? And if it was a
100k I'm sure they'd sell loads of them
but the problem is it's got a Ferrari
badge on it and not an Apple badge.
>> the reason why you see people pointing
to the Tesla and saying this only costs
$100,000 and all of a sudden the
high-end looks really good and it has
better you know RPM or whatever the
language is.
>> After Farro got me into F1 Ferrari does
not belong with an EV.
>> Okay.
>> Wow.
>> You found the tweet?
>> So Ian Bremmer says first one he's that
looks like you don't need to be an
insufferable explicit to drive it. Oh,
that's a different sort of story.
>> Oh, come on.
You can You can say the
Is that what he said?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Okay. You can say that word.
>> Yeah, I know my nephew's watching the
word.
>> I I I I to at home. The The problem is
with that statement is the lack of
self-awareness there. It will be the
insufferable that actually buy the car.
You're going to see them in San
Francisco and Los Angeles. You know.
>> I think his his failure to actually
understand what one of those actually is
anyway. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. It's Bonnie Quinn. Hey
Bonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you.
The Democratic Republic of Congo is
seeking access to an experimental
antibody treatment as Ebola continues to
spread. The country's health ministry
says suspected cases have climbed above
[music] 1,000 with 238 suspected deaths.
Shares of Dell trading higher in the
pre-market. The Pentagon says a unit of
the company won a nearly $10 billion
contract to provide a suite of software
to the US military.
Dell reports [music] earnings after the
close.
A Google software engineer is charged
with insider trading.
>> [music]
>> The 36-year-old allegedly made more than
a million-dollar bet on Polymarket by
betting Google's most popular search of
would be the singer David. He had access
to company data that tracks user
searches when he bet. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Bonnie, thank you. I I apologize. Is
that a bad word?
>> My 70-year-old
>> scale for profanity, that's just not
That doesn't register at all.
>> brother is like, "Oh my god, I've never
heard that word before."
>> I don't believe
>> [laughter]
>> Oh my goodness.
>> No way. I remember when I first when I
first moved here and started cursing in
the newsroom.
>> Yeah, [music] that was
>> Right. Just throwing around the odd
casual word. You know what it's like in
London, right? Very casually just sort
of throwing in lacing everyday language
with profanity like an everyday Brit
word. And Americans being like, [music]
"Oh my goodness."
>> Not New Yorkers.
>> Oh my goodness.
>> I think you're allowed to say it also
because it is a direct quote. So, we
want to be transparent and honest with
our audience.
>> Thanks for cleaning that up. Appreciate
it. Up next on the program, counting
down [music] to inflation data.
>> Everyone is focused on core PCE. I'm
worried about real [music] personal
consumption. Real personal spending at a
moment in which nominal wage [music]
gains are not keeping up with headline
inflation.
>> Up next, Kay Herr of JP Morgan Asset
Management live from New York City.
You're watching [music] Bloomberg TV.
Inflation data are a few hours away.
Your scores into that look like this.
Equity futures this [music] morning
pulling back after stalling yesterday
just about squeezing out a day of gains
on the S&P. We're down this morning by
0.2% in the bond markets which are the
board two stands 30s yields higher at
the front end of the curve by about two
basis points this morning, [music]
4.06%.
Under surveillance this morning counting
down to inflation data.
>> Everyone is focused [music] on core PCE.
I'm worried about real personal
consumption. Real personal spending at a
moment in which [music] nominal wage
gains are not keeping up with headline
inflation means that consumers are
losing ground in real purchasing power
and at some point that starts to flow
through to the broader economy. [music]
>> So here's the latest this morning. Fresh
data from the Federal Reserve's
preferred inflation gauge due out in
just under two hours time [music]
as more policy makers signal a hawkish
pivot could be on the horizon. Kay
Herrer of JP Morgan Asset Management
writing, "It's a long way from an easing
bias to an actual hike. We'll need to
see signs of demand led inflation to
traverse that particular distance." Kay
joins us now for more. Kay, good
morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> good to see you. I'm very well. Let's
talk about this inflation data. What are
you and the team expecting to see at
8:30 Eastern time?
>> Look, let's start with first of all,
isn't it nice to not be talking about
Iran and to go back to macroeconomic
[clears throat] data? I'm sorry, but
>> [laughter]
>> You tell me what crude's doing, I can
tell you what stocks and bonds are
doing.
>> be the follow-up question, but please
>> [laughter]
>> So look, I think that the inflation data
has been very hot and very sticky. We've
had a supply shock, and that's exactly
what happens. It's going to translate
through, and I would not be surprised if
we get another hot PCE number today. And
as you know, that's the the Fed's
preferred number. Is it going to be, you
know, the 3.8 consensus or higher or
lower than that? I don't know. I don't
have any insight on that, but I can tell
you almost guarantee that it will be
higher than the Fed's 2% number that
they're looking for.
>> How do you determine whether it's
demand-led or whether it's supply-led?
Right now, people talk about supply-led,
but demand-led is allowing the inflation
to remain hotter in the system because
people are still buying.
>> So, it's a good question, and the two
things that we really focus on on the
demand side are wages and shelter. Those
are the ones where we haven't seen it
yet. We haven't seen Have you gotten You
don't have to answer this on air, but
have you gotten a raise from Bloomberg
lately? Jamie Dimon's not throwing out
raises at JPMorgan. Like, there's just
not a lot of wage inflation that we're
seeing. Same on shelter. You saw a major
um M&A deal in the REIT market in in
apartments last week. There's not a lot
of uh revenue growth for them. So, those
are the two things that we're watching
and we'll continue to watch.
>> If you don't get uh some sort of rate
hike, does that make you more skeptical
about the long end of the yield curve?
The idea that this is going to be a
structurally more dovish
>> you have just gone like I like you guys
were talking about Ferraris. You're in a
Ferrari going all the way from Not only
might PCE be hot, but you just put away
a raise for me.
>> whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa.
>> Why are you being so spicy this morning?
>> I mean, look, let's be fair. This is the
conservative
>> calm us down a little bit, Dana.
>> My dress is bright, colorful.
>> You're wearing black. I'm wearing red,
so let's
go.
>> Okay, there we go. There's a sense going
[laughter] forward that ultimately there
is structurally higher inflation, and
the commodity shock isn't going away
anytime soon, and that's going to lead
to structurally higher prices along with
the AI build-out. So, at what point,
without a rate hike, do you start start
to get more skeptical of long-duration
bonds?
>> So, let's take everything a step back
here. First off, the Fed, unfortunately,
ruined the word transitory for us
because in 2022, they were talking about
transitory and inflation was not
transitory. We were all out there
spending, buying things, doing things.
Inflation was not transitory on our
side. You know, my colleagues, we were
not saying that it was transitory. And
that's put the Fed in a little bit of a
box of they can't say it's transitory
because nobody's going to believe them.
They've lost credibility on that, right?
And so, now what are you seeing here?
You see Fed officials moving behind much
more hawkish. And I think that's
intentional. You know, in the '90s, we
used to talk about the Federal Open
Mouth Committee. I think we're back to
the Does that Am I like Do you not
remember that?
That's what it was. They're like
jawboning about stuff. And guess what?
The bond market is doing their work for
them. The bond market is having the
discipline. You can worry You worry
about fiscal fiscal discipline, you
worry about easy monetary policy, the
bond market does the work for them.
>> But do you think it is transitory? Cuz
the Treasury Secretary seems comfortable
using that term.
>> I I I
>> [clears throat]
>> Like I said, that word has been ruined,
but yes, so far it looks very much
supply-driven. What I can't tell you is
how long it persists. The struggle is I
think people thought, especially after
Venezuela, people thought Iran is going
to be we're in and out and it's fine and
it keeps getting extended. So, I think
the risk to it, and I have no insight on
this, is the longer that this conflict
stays on, the longer that gas prices
stay higher, and then what happens? Does
that continue to get passed through? You
know, we've seen evidence that in the
four to 450 range on gas prices for
consumers, they substitute. You've
started to see that um
the the the spending the total dollar
spending by consumers on gas isn't
keeping up with what it should just
purely based on what gas prices are
doing. So, consumers are trading down.
You see it in retail on that. So, if
it's a year from now, then maybe things
then maybe things change.
>> the rest of of year? Conventional
thinking is that the Iranians are well
aware that the president has a big
midterm election coming up.
>> I I
That's a little bit hard to game. What I
want to go back to is you asked me a
very good question a month ago, if I
may.
>> Yay.
>> Last time [laughter] I've gone No, you
asked me you were kind of baiting me on
warsh and trimmed mean.
>> Did I accuse you of baiting me?
>> You were.
>> I'm very glad you brought
>> Right?
>> [laughter]
>> So, and the Fed put out a paper last
week on the measurement error around
software services on on Have you You
probably have not been on this, but the
Fed themselves are saying that the
contribution from software and um
software and accessories to core PCE is
nine standard deviations from the mean
over the last four months.
So, the point is when you look at
something like trim mean, maybe that
should get tossed out in terms of the
influence that's having. So, we're back
to what does this data mean? John,
you're looking skeptical.
>> just thought it's a really great effort
not to talk about Iran there, the pivot.
>> I I have no insight into Iran. I have no
insight into Iran. I'm telling you the
bond market prices in the market.
>> I think a lot of people feel the same
way, so they're looking elsewhere.
There's no edge. How do you get an edge
on something that is a morass of
disinformation and complication and
difficulty and it has a lot of human
elements to it, but from a market
standpoint, if you don't have an edge on
it, it just is noise. It's like
>> So, that's exactly right. And you got to
take it back to what are we supposed to
be doing? We're portfolio managers.
We're supposed to be the bad beat the
agg on a daily basis. So, the first
thing is don't get whipsawed. You look
at this market, there have been multiple
opportunities to get whipsawed and we
haven't. Stay the course. You know, the
bond market itself has gone from two
cuts to two hikes and everything in
between. We've had a more neutral view
[music] on that. We're going to be range
bound, so you sell at the high, you
know, you're buying at the highs of the
range, you're you're adding [music]
duration there and you're
um trimming it at the lows of the range.
I mean, I just think it's that. And on
the credit side, you know, [music] while
all the Iran stuff is going on, the IG
bond market has priced almost a trillion
dollars of supply at a new issue
concession.
>> Kay, [music] have bullish bonds. JP
Morgan, good to see you.
>> On the macroeconomic side, everything is
going quite well.
>> A lot of that upside risk around the
unemployment rate has moderated
significantly.
>> We have some structural things [music]
building up in the inflation pipeline.
>> We still don't see the Fed hiking
anytime soon.
>> The Fed is well positioned to wait and
see.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from audience
worldwide. The second [music] hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores of the price action
looks like this. Pulling back from
all-time highs on the S&P, down by a
quarter of 1% on the Nasdaq, down by
0.5. In the bond market, yields creeping
higher at the front end of the curve.
Two's up by three, 4.06%
building off this move in the energy
market. A small bounce on Brent [music]
and WTI. Brent crude this morning up by
close to 3% close to 97 heading into
this data point later this morning. 90
[music]
minutes away, PCE in America.
>> Yeah, so core PCE is expected to come in
3.3% year-over-year. That is not 2%.
That is not 2.5%. It's actually above
the 3.2% that it was in the prior
reading, which is exactly the wrong
direction and the wrong type of levels
that this Federal Reserve [music] would
like to see. Does it matter? Is it
transitory without saying transitory?
This is going to be the key debate. But
when you pair this with robust earnings
that we've been seeing from a lot of
corporations, as well as ongoing
improvement that you're seeing in the
labor market, and you saw that this
[music] week with a little bit of
peripheral ADP data, it seems to point
to a direction that makes the Federal
Reserve incredibly uneasy.
>> We've started every year for the last 3
years worried about above target
inflation before the Federal Reserve has
gone on to cut interest rates three
times by 75 basis points at the back end
of the year. I have to say this time
going into this summer, listening to
these Fed officials, it feels [music]
slightly different.
>> Especially because ultimately there are
a number of different nodes of this.
It's not just coming from the oil prices
and we can talk about the Strait of
Hormuz. [music] It is very important. We
all understand that we have to keep that
in the back of our minds.
>> Amelia have a moment in the moment.
[laughter]
>> But there is also the whole build-out of
AI. There also is this K-shaped economy
where at the higher end a lot of
different retailers [music]
and travel companies are able to raise
prices and pass that along and demand
remains robust. So you see it kind of
trickling into the economy in different
ways as we move from a financialized
economy into a very physical one that
suddenly [music] needs to build for a
new industrial revolution.
>> of that building, a lot of that spending
price insensitive and that's part of the
issue right now for this Federal
Reserve. Amare moment, it looks like
this. Brent and WTI up by more than 2%
so far this morning call it 2.5. Moments
ago [music] we heard from US Central
Command about just what happened in the
last 24 hours. The second time we've
seen this
>> [music]
>> in just a few days.
>> Yeah, and US Central Command is saying
that Iran launched a ballistic missile
toward Kuwait successfully intercepted
by Kuwaiti forces and then they're
saying that it was an egregious
ceasefire violation on the part by the
Iranians. So then [music] also the
Iranians launched five one-way attack
drones and then those were near the
Strait of Hormuz that then they struck
down. So basically what we're seeing is
tit-for-tat clashes.
>> [music]
>> They're saying it's defensive in nature
but my question is at one point as we
see these red lines really start to
become pink. At one point do you
actually say, "No, [music] this is
proper end of the ceasefire. We might go
back to attack."
>> For now at least and not to trivialize
the moment but I think the market sees
this as expensive fireworks, expensive
skeet shooting so to speak if you've
ever done that at a very expensive level
on the US side.
For the market you now did the word
[music] agnostic. The market is agnostic
about how we get there and that being
energy flowing. And you start to see
some ships, some vessels get through the
strait in ways that you haven't done a
month or so ago.
>> Yeah, there have been a couple of
vessels going to places like China, but
also other places in the world. And
every time you see a report, the
greatest amount of oil that traversed
the Strait of Hormuz going back to the
beginning of February. Suddenly you get
another pop in markets because they're
looking for just some leaks to Amara's
[music] point earlier that could allow
oil to keep flowing and to mitigate some
of the price increases that we've seen.
>> Well, to that point, an Iranian news
outlet is saying that Iran [music]
allowed 26 ships to cross the strait in
the last 24 hours. I would love to know
what flag these were, exactly where
these ships are going. Also because last
night OFAC came out and basically
sanctioned [music] the tolling authority
and anyone that deals with that tolling
authority
is going to now be in the crosshairs of
the US Treasury Department and they can
also get fines [music] and be
sanctioned. So, it's interesting to say
Iran's allowing this, but it does seem
like the US administration is doubling
down.
>> So, we've got a bouncing crude, a
pullback in equities of about a quarter
of 1% on the S&P 500 and a big data
point dropping later this morning at
8:30 Eastern time. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Emily Roland of John
Hancock with stocks hovering near
all-time highs. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall with crude rising following
fresh strikes on Iran and the BNY CEO,
Robin Vince, on the debut of the Trump
accounts app. Look out for that a little
bit later this morning. We begin this
hour with stocks flat and crude elevated
as investors await the latest round of
inflation data. Emily Roland of John
Hancock writing, "If the Fed must slam
on the brakes by year end, we are in the
danger of the economy contracting. There
is a tail risk where the bond market is
starting to put in odds of two to three
hikes." Emily joins us now for more.
Emily, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> That's the tail risk. Is it the base
case?
>> It's not our base case. We think there's
some underlying factors in the market
that are actually disinflationary and
have the ability to to sort of offset
this increase in oil prices that we've
seen, but we're not in Kansas anymore,
meaning we're not in Goldilocks anymore
right now. And clearly we're seeing that
in the PCE data later this morning,
probably confirm that. At the end of the
day though, we look at the sort of heat
that's coming from inflation, but the
macro picture is actually quite a bit
cooler underneath the surface. Things
like housing data, we got Case-Shiller
home prices earlier this week up 0.7
year-over-year. We're seeing job
openings slowing. We look at real-time
measures like indeed.com and Linked Up,
which are both showing that job openings
are actually plunging as of the month of
April. So I think when you look at the
Fed's dual mandate, it's, you know,
employment and inflation, the employment
side's quite a bit weaker than the the
inflation side.
>> words, you don't think the labor market
is hot enough to worry. Is that fair?
>> That's fair.
>> Is the bond market a buy then?
>> To us, we are looking at every backup in
bond yields as an opportunity because
equities are priced for perfection in a
world that's not that perfect and as
asset allocators and we're making the
decision between stocks and bonds, we
see bonds as a value here. So we would
lock in that elevated income and build a
return stream that can last for years
rather than sit in cash, which is what
every investor that I talked to was
still doing.
>> The issue a lot of people have is that
financial markets seem to have broken
down from the fundamental economy
underneath. Yeah. There is a sense that
some of the concerns and the weakness
that you're seeing in certain pockets of
the consumer, not seeing significant
wage growth, doesn't matter for where
inflation is, doesn't matter for where
growth is. It's this price insensitive
buyer in terms of technology as John was
mentioning. And frankly, it's
efficiency. So how do you kind of rebut
that argument?
>> You don't. Nothing matters except AI,
AI, AI and a little more AI. And it
comes back to earnings. Like, you know,
and it's funny, John said it, so I'm
going to say it, like this time's
different. Those are the foremost
dangerous words in investing. I thought
we grew up not learning not to say that.
>> different. [laughter]
>> He's He's hedging it. You're right.
>> A little bit of a of Yeah, a little bit
of a hedge there. there. It's a head
>> But it feels that way in the sense of
the economy is like okay, but the market
is just on fire right now and we we had
you know, there's a number of things
happening, but every single person that
comes on your show is talking about
earnings, earnings, earnings and it was
just absolutely explosive to see S&P 500
earnings coming in at 28%. Analysts had
estimated 13%. That's great. Like 28%
and you know, it's the valuations are
actually shrinking a little bit because
the earnings are so good. Like the
denominator is amazing and it's global.
You look at emerging market equity
earnings. Of course, it's only three
stocks. We all know that, but it's
companies that are selling things to the
United States from a semiconductor
perspective that are also seeing their
earnings booming. So we have used
earnings as the number one input into
our work for the last 10 years and that
tells you there's support for this.
>> Why can we see or how can we see growth
and these incredible earnings, and
incredible financial market gains
without seeing incredible inflation. I'm
just This is what I'm struggling with. I
you know, like I don't understand what
people are saying which is that people
don't feel very good, but unfortunately
this market is not kind. Averages are
not kind and they really cater to the
upper end of the K and the upper end of
the K is feeling very good. So how do
you counter that?
>> Yeah, it's amazing. It's the wealth
effect. Like investors have never been
richer and more miserable in history.
You look at this the Michigan Sentiment
Index and I understand why it's plunged,
but it's at an all-time low last week
and meanwhile the stock market's at an
all-time high. It is remarkable. There's
now 175 trillion dollars in consumer net
worth. People own more stocks and real
estate for the first time since the late
1990s right now. Um so that wealth
effect has been huge and if you think
about the way that it's all connected,
you've got booming AI earnings. Um
you've got semiconductors that are
acting like they're sold out right now.
So, there's a scarcity issue there.
There's a booming CapEx cycle going on.
And then if you think about that wealth
effect, it's translating into helping
the financial sector. The wealth
management businesses of some of these
firms are booming. And then you've got
to your point, margin expansion for the
first time in a while. Like remember we
were worried about that for a while,
company margins shrinking? Well, they're
back at they're back to expanding again
because companies broadly are using AI
to do more with less. So, there's a
number of elements here that I think are
supportive. Meanwhile, the lower-end
consumer, not so hot.
>> Well, at some point, the lower-end
consumer, they've been somewhat
resilient, maybe having to move money
around. At some point, they just have to
stop spending.
>> I mean, that's certainly a risk and I
you know, I've heard several economists
say like we don't need jobs and for the
economy to grow and I I disagree with
that. Like if the more that you see the
labor market deteriorating, where does
that top-line growth come from if people
aren't spending? So, I think that's a
critical issue to watch.
>> believe in jobless growth?
>> I don't.
>> Well, okay. Cuz that's potentially where
we're going with AI, right?
>> Yeah, I think it's going to For now, so
far so good. And the labor market, by
the way, is not falling off a cliff.
Like we look at initial jobless claims,
we're still in the low 200,000s. That's
great. But I do think at some point if
the unemployment rate goes up that we're
going to have a problem in terms of the
consumer. But more important, if the
market corrects. So, then you're going
to see that upper-end consumer pull
back. If you did see a 10% decline in
the market, I think a lot of people are
going to be looking at their portfolio.
>> It's funny how few people put any weight
on you, Mitch, and that sentiment number
being at record lows. I understand why
because I think typically we look at it
from the following perspective. How on
earth can this be worse than GFC, being
locked up at home in a pandemic? Allow
me to try and shift the perspective just
a little bit on that number.
It's not about viewing this economy in
isolation right now. I think you should
view that number as an accumulation of a
feelings over the last couple of
decades. The accumulation of feelings
through GFC, through the pandemic, and
the consumers and what they felt about
this economy. It's not just about now.
It's about then, where they were before.
And for them right now, yes, it's got to
that point where it's never been worse
because prices still keep climbing. Now,
yes, sure, 3% is not nine, but that
doesn't matter. It's on top of the 9%
before. So, you're looking at a basket
of goods that might be 30% plus higher
than it was going into the pandemic. And
it keeps getting worse, not better.
>> And if you're 30 years old today versus
a 30-year-old old in 1990, could you buy
a house? Could you have confidence about
what your job would be? How do you
develop a family? There are all of these
huge questions, which is a reason why
that long-term interest rates matter
quite a bit. At the same time, averages
are not kind. I keep coming back to
that. And if you have hyper scalar
spending on incredible goods and paying
$100,000 bonuses every week, well,
suddenly there's a cohort of people that
can still afford these things. It
becomes a policy issue on the fiscal
side, not necessarily a policy issue on
the monetary side.
>> Emily, so good to see you. You're going
to stick with us. Emily Roland there of
John Hancock. Emily was talking about
EM. Take EM. She mentioned three stocks,
right? You ask people in emerging
markets right now how they feel. I'm
sure they're struggling with access to
energy at the moment. They probably
don't feel very good, but that's not the
emerging market stock story right now.
The emerging market stock story right
now is Taiwan Semi, SK Hynix, right? And
Samsung. Three names. That's the story.
>> It's not exactly diversification from
some of the winners that we've seen,
which is Sometimes people come on and
they say, "We like EM, but we like the
EM names that are sort of the ones that
are traditional that have actually
gotten their balance sheets together."
Maybe you developed markets could learn
something from them.
>> We'll spend some time on this story in
just a moment. Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Bonnie Quinn has more. Hey,
Bonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. US officials
saying Iran violated a ceasefire
agreement with the US in a post on X.
Central Command calling Iran's launch of
a ballistic missile toward Kuwait a
quote egregious [music] violation.
Dollar Tree shares surging in the
premarket. The the retailer reporting
first quarter earnings that beat on the
top and bottom lines. Dollar Tree also
boosting its adjusted EPS forecast for
the year, surpassing Wall Street
estimates.
Meta is rolling out a paid subscription
model for its AI chatbot as it aims to
offset big spending.
>> [music]
>> The tech giant is unveiling a two-tiered
subscription model at $7.99 per month
and a premium plan for $19.99. [music]
It's being introduced in Singapore,
Guatemala, and Bolivia with plans to
expand to more countries. And that is
your Bloomberg Brief. Tom.
>> I'd only thank you more from Vanya in
about 30 minutes time. I'm next on the
program, trading strikes [music]
at the Strait.
>> And then is very much
intent. They want very much to make a
deal. So far they haven't gotten there.
We're not satisfied with it, but
we will be. We will be. Either that or
we'll have to just finish the job.
They're negotiating on fumes.
>> In just a moment we'll catch up with
Bloomberg's Taylor Kendall from the
nation's capital in Washington, D.C.
From New York City this morning, good
morning.
>> [music]
>> 15 minutes away this conversation right
here. Looking forward to catching up
with the BNY CEO, [music]
Robin Vince, at 7:30 Eastern time. Don't
miss that. In just a moment, don't miss
this either. In an hour and 14 minutes
time, inflation data in America. [music]
PCE, the Fed's preferred read on
inflation, expected to climb to close to
4%. The estimate for this morning, 3.8%
year-over-year. And every single Fed
official we've heard from so far
is worried about upside risk to
inflation.
>> I keep asking and I kept thinking about
[music] this last night as I was going
over some of the commentary from
Jefferson and Cook. Uh the Fed officials
were talking about the potential to
raise rates. [music]
Who exactly wanted to keep the easing
bias in the Federal Reserve?
Ultimately, this is not what we're
hearing in terms of the rhetoric.
Clearly, the numbers aren't doing so
well. We're going to be dissecting them.
And Kate Herron actually did have a
really good point, which is ultimately
there are some [music] inputs here that
might be skewing things. And so, a trim
mean might be looked as at a political
at the same time. Economists that are
well versed in markets are looking at
this as
>> There seems to be a conversation,
speculation if you will, that maybe this
was about just setting things up for the
new guy to make the decision himself.
Not to take it away from him.
>> [music]
>> Maybe. And I have to say, so far the
data backs that up. Because to your
point, and you're absolutely right, I
can't point to a single Fed official
right now that does support the easing
bias at the Federal Reserve. So, who did
at the last meeting?
>> And if they did it and they aren't going
to come and say it, well then what good
is some of this easing guidance to
markets? Right now, how much is the Fed
trying to do with jawboning and how much
they actually willing to do? And [music]
that right now is the debate for bond
markets.
>> So, we've got some data and some
earnings too later this morning. We'll
get [music] numbers from Costco after
the closing bell. We'll also hear from
The Gap as well. Look out for Dell after
the close as well. Some of [music] these
old-school tech stories really taking
off recently. So, look out for that
name, too. In the commodity market this
morning, we're bouncing back [music] on
Brent on crude. Brent crude 97, WTI
around 91. Under Savannah's this
morning, trading strikes at the Strait.
>> The Strait's going to be open to
everybody. We'll watch over it, but
nobody's going to control this part of
the negotiation that we have for Iran is
very much
intent. They want very much to make a
deal. So far, they haven't gotten there.
We're not satisfied with it, but
now we will be. We will be. Either that
or we'll have to just finish the job.
They're negotiating on fumes.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran exchanging fire in the
Persian Gulf within the last hour. US
Central Command saying Iran egregiously
violated the cease-fire agreement.
Bloomberg's Tasha Keene will join us
from Washington for more. Tasha, we saw
the reports overnight. We're now getting
some detail of what just happened in the
last 24 hours.
>> Right, John. Breaking moments ago, the
statement coming out from CENTCOM saying
that this egregious ceasefire violation
on the part of Iran comes after the
country launched a ballistic missile
towards regional partners like Kuwait.
And CENTCOM goes on in its statement to
say that CENTCOM stands behind regional
partners and remains, in part, quote,
"vigilant and measured as we continue to
defend our forces and interests not
taking the threat of further military
escalation off of the table after
overnight the US conducted this freshest
round of military strikes in response,
according to CENTCOM, to multiple drones
being launched at commercial ships in
the Strait of Hormuz. And just
yesterday, President Trump maintained
that no country will have formal control
over the Strait in any potential deal
that the US signs. But we're starting to
see Iran try to tighten its grip in
multiple ways, including laying mines in
the Strait, uh conducting these drone
strikes, but also releasing this new set
of rules that vessels would need to
comply with in order to transit through.
And new this morning, we heard from
Iranian state media that confirmed that
so far the country has let through 26
vessels in the last 24 hours and says
that the IRGC is avowing that they will
respond to any disruption to its efforts
to try to control traffic in the Strait.
This is just raising the risk here and
showing us how, at least publicly, the
two sides feel very far apart on what
appears to be the first phase of any
potential deal. John, we know that the
White House is pursuing this phased
approach where we would first need to
see a reopening of the Strait of Hormuz
before we can even talk about formal
dialogue around what potential curbs on
Iran's nuclear program would look like
and what happens to that stockpile of
highly enriched uranium.
>> Tyler, appreciate it. Tyler Kendall down
in Washington, D.C. Everything's lined
up to squeeze this consumer right now.
The labor market's not too hot. Energy
prices are multi-year highs. Mortgage
costs are about 6.5% for a 30-year
mortgage in this country. But, some
retailers are executing. Best Buy this
morning up in the pre-market, Lisa.
Earnings just moments ago, the stock is
up by more than 9%.
>> Yeah, it came out with first quarter
revenue of 8.94 billion versus the
estimate of 8.8 billion. If that had
been Nvidia with a trillion dollars next
to it, it would have been absolutely
penalized because stocks have been bid
up so much. But, because it's Best Buy
and because people have been so
skeptical of the US consumer, stocks are
surging some 11 uh some 9.5%.
You're seeing just the maintaining
forward guidance and that is enough.
Similar story for Kohl's, reporting
stronger than expected sales, but just
talking about less of a loss than people
had previously expected. That's enough
to send these stocks surging. So, it
gives you a sense of just how much
people have a very low bar for consumer
cyclicals. And if that starts to change
in any capacity, that'll be rewarded in
a significant way.
>> Best Buy up 10% in the pre-market. Emily
Roland at John Hancock still with us.
Emily, let's continue this conversation.
Earnings, can the earning story broaden
out beyond just these select chip names
in the tech sector?
>> Well, you're seeing it. You know, and I
think this morning certainly is evidence
of that. But, it almost does feel like
the entire stock market is becoming an
AI stock market. It's bleeding into
small caps. It's bleeding into mid caps.
One of them things that surprises a lot
of the investors I talk to is that value
is handily outperforming growth this
year. Guess why value is outperforming
growth. Guess what's in the value index.
Semiconductors. It's Micron and Intel
are the top two names. So, the value
factor is wildly outperforming. It's the
combination of value and momentum.
That's kind of an odd couple, if you ask
me. And meanwhile, low volatility and
quality are way behind year-to-date. So,
very interesting dynamics if you're
somebody that's doing asset allocation
or doing attribution analysis, there's a
lot of surprises under the hood there.
And there's a know-what-you-own, I
think, element to the market.
>> think is more durable of the things
you've identified?
>> Yeah, I I I think quality can come back
here. Typically in an environment where
economic growth is slowing. And I'm not
say saying again, economic growth is is
significantly
uh slowing in the United States. I don't
think it is, but I do see this modest
deceleration. That typically benefits
quality. That typically benefits growth,
that side of the market. So, I do think
we could see a handoff here if that
continues.
>> here is that people are looking for
buys. People are looking for steals.
They want bargains. And I'm not just
talking about going to Kohl's and
looking at the sales rack. I'm talking
about the idea that Kohl's shares are
down 36% so far year-to-date. So, when
they come out and they maintain forward
guidance, that's enough to send the
stock to the races. Best Buy down 3 and
1/2%. When they maintain guidance and
have a little bit of a beat, people are
just cheering. Is that healthy or is
that concerning?
>> I think it's
it's okay for now. I think the challenge
is obviously there's a tax on the
consumer right now in terms of paying at
the pump. And meanwhile, you've got wage
growth at a pretty meager about 3 and
1/2%. Just a few years ago, wage growth
was like 6, 7%. Much higher than
inflation. So, I think the consumer's
starting to get pinched here. Um we do
have some advantages versus a few years
ago. Obviously, the energy independence
in the United States is something that's
helpful. We have the electrification uh
going on. I wish I personally had an EV.
I had didn't make that investment a
while ago, but that certainly would
help. So, there are some offsets here,
but I do think the consumer can start to
come under some pressure in the back
half of the year. And that's really
important as it relates to how much
risk-taking there is in markets today.
>> How exhausting is it to be to maintain
your cautious stance?
>> It's exhausting. So, the dip buying is
just absolutely relentless. And and you
and I have talked about this. It's the
retail investor that's just so powerful.
And I think you're seeing it in
momentum. You're seeing it in
technicals. Um you know, the the best
investors this year have been my
16-year-old son and the rest of his
friends on the Marblehead High School
lacrosse team because they all have, you
know, they're all trading every day and
they're all very busy with their, you
know, the strategies that they've
learned on TikTok or whatever else and
it's frustrating when the team is
beating me at the investing game. So, I
think it's a challenge, you know, we've
been we're being put through the
wringer, but at the end of the day, I
think fundamentals will matter again,
earnings will matter again, quality will
matter again. We may just have to wait a
bit.
>> we had more time because I was just
about to lean in and get ready for what
sounded like a therapy session between
two moms, both of which [laughter] are
bearish and both have very bullish sons
at home who are very long this equity
market.
>> to say that we were talking my son in
March when the NASDAQ was down some 1%.
Mom, I bought the dip. I went all in.
You know, he thinks like a grown up.
And I said to him exactly. And I said to
[laughter] him, Anne Marie tells me
about the street all the time. And he
said, you don't get many dips. And he
crushed it. And I feel like we're in the
same boat.
>> We saw this in the pandemic, right? Same
thing. They got long early and they were
right. And they were right, too.
>> Yeah, they're conditioned to be bullish.
And so, if you have a whole generation
conditioned to be bullish, do you fight
it? Do they get reconditioned at some
point? I mean, these are some of the big
questions.
>> we love? The less you know.
>> The less you know.
>> The less you know, apparently. Anne
Marie, it's good to see you. Thank you.
Anne [music] Marie Roland there of John
Hancock. Up next, the BNY CEO, Robin
Vince, on the debut of the Trump
accounts app. Look out for that in just
a moment. Plus, Yohai Rubner has your
morning movers. Dollar Tree rising
following a strong [music] earnings
beat. They're not the only ones this
morning. Dollar Tree up by 11%.
Five days, no losses on the S&P 500.
Equity futures pulling back just a
little bit. That might change today.
We're down by a third of 1% [music] on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ 100, down by
0.5. Plenty of decent retail earnings
stories out there. We'll spend some time
on that in just a moment. Turn to the
[music] bond market though. Front end of
the yield curve in focus going into this
PCE read, the inflation read 8:30
Eastern time, the Fed's preferred read
on price pressure in this country. 4.06%
on twos [music] and up three basis
points. The moving crude this morning
not helping. WTI and Brent bouncing just
a little bit up by close to 3%. [music]
Brent at 97, WTI at 91.
>> When you pair the higher prices with
some of the earnings that we've gotten
from retailers that have been fairly
robust and some of the forward guidance
which has been either maintained or
upgraded from a number of different
retailers, it gives you a sense of how
[music] inflation can be sticky. Whether
the Fed will actually hike rates is an
interesting question because right now
the front end of the yield curve [music]
is pricing that in. So many people don't
believe it. Stock market investors don't
believe that the Fed will have
the will or desire to raise rates. Bond
investors don't seem to think so either
and yet the bond market is pricing it in
so try to square those two ideas like
>> the average. That's very unusual for the
Federal Reserve just to come out and
hike once.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is basically what we're priced
for. So there's [music] a risk they do a
lot more than that if they start. And
there's a sequence they have to go
through as you know. It's a delicate
dance, it's very slow. First of all you
remove the easing bias, you slip into
neutral. Then you start saying things
like
>> [music]
>> there's an equal chance of a hike or a
cut, we don't know, let's get more data.
And then you start to think about
whether you really need to hike rates.
[music] I don't think this Fed hikes 25
if it starts to hike. It's going to do
more than that in the same way it
doesn't cut 25, it cuts 75. You know, if
you're going to [music] do one you'll do
two or three. So for them to start
really thinking about signaling that
we're going to hike interest rates I
think they've really got to believe you
need much tighter policy than where we
are
>> [music]
>> right now.
>> rhetoric is outpacing maybe their
willingness to move because the rhetoric
is actually increasingly shifting toward
the possibility of a rate hike [music]
and that easing bias I can't find in the
rhetoric even though I saw it in the
document. So it is going to be a curious
mix that good luck Kevin [music] Warsh.
>> they're hoping it does something to
tighten financial conditions and
ultimately they don't have to do
anything.
>> As a market representative, sick of
being job owned. Whether it's by the
straight or whether it's by this. I
think there is a sense of people just
looking at the data and trying to make
decisions.
>> The annex and they're absolutely [music]
fantastic. Yes, every single time. Let's
talk about it. Two hours away from the
cash open. Your morning movers Yohara
has more. Hey Yohara.
>> Hi John. Well, these retail earnings
have been fantastic and we start with
the standout Dollar Tree. Shares are
rising 9.6% [music] in the premarket and
it's perhaps no surprise that a name
like Dollar Tree is seeing strong demand
as we continue to see signs of a more
price conscious consumer. It posted a
[music] beat and a raised quarter and
what's interesting is that it was still
able to improve margins even [music]
with tariff pressures in the backdrop.
And no, it's not because it's raising
prices. It's because of less theft and
better shipping costs. And
interestingly, while you're seeing a a
stretched consumer trading down, you are
also seeing them able to splurge on
pricier uh
consumer electronics items. Uh Best
[music] Buy shares are up 10% in the
premarket after it posted better than
expected results and just reaffirmed
[music]
its full year outlook. And as Lisa said,
there's just been so much skepticism
around the US consumer. So this is
enough to lift shares. And we end on our
big mover to the upside and that is
Snowflake. Shares [music] are still up
nearly 40% in the premarket after the
cloud software company raised its full
year outlook and announced a massive $6
billion deal with Amazon Web Services.
This is [music] clearly a relief for
investors who have grown increasingly
worried about AI disrupting software.
>> John.
>> What a move. Yohara, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Yohara in the
next hour. On our radar this morning, US
Central Command [music] saying Iran
violated the ceasefire agreement
launching a ballistic missile towards
Kuwait. The attack coming hours after
Iranian forces launched five one-way
drones near the Strait of Hormuz. The
missile and drones were all intercepted.
Elsewhere, a fresh round of retail
earnings out this morning. Dollar Tree
shares soaring after increasing its full
year outlook. Kohl's and Best Buy also
rising, both retailers reaffirming their
guidance. Earnings continue after the
close with Costco and the Gap set to
report. And finally, Fed officials
continuing to warn about rising
inflation ahead of today's PCE report.
>> The risks remain tilted toward higher
inflation.
In my baseline forecast, disinflation
should resume in upcoming months without
having to raise rates.
>> I believe this policy stance leaves us
well positioned to respond to economic
developments based on the incoming data,
the evolving outlook, and the balance of
risks.
>> The Fed's preferred inflation gauge
expected to climb closer to 4% today,
marking the biggest two-month
acceleration going back to 2021.
>> This is clearly Fed officials taking
into their own hands to remove their own
easing bias. You heard Lisa Cook, for
example, saying inflation is clearly
moving in the wrong direction, a similar
type of tone um from from Jefferson. A
question here about the delta between
removing that easing bias, having
hawkish rhetoric, and actually hiking
rates. This is a chronically dovish
Federal Reserve, and unless there is
some external factor, it is unclear what
could prompt them to be different and to
actually be proactive in hiking rates at
a time when there clearly is a lot of
distress in certain pockets, even if the
overall averages seem to be climbing. To
this conversation you and Jonathan have
been having is maybe this is off to
offer almost a clean slate. Kevin Warsh
needs to come in and be the one to make
that decision. If it's not him, who else
is on the Fed to really take the reins?
Or also, is there any individual there
that thinks potentially they would want
to keep it if Steven Miron is the one
that maybe is the only individual that
was going to want to keep the easing
bias. Cuz maybe Kevin Warsh would want
to.
>> Band-Aid off the regime, hike rates June
17th.
>> No way.
>> Just total reset. Who would accuse Kevin
Warsh of sacrificing central bank
independence to be hiking 25 basis
points on day one?
>> Everyone when he gets fired, when he
gets [laughter] canned by President
Trump. No one's expecting that. But he
can rip the band-aid off and move to a
neutral position, which is really uh
interesting. Also, we'll hear from him.
I mean, again, who is the real Kevin
Warsh? Please.
>> out in the news conference on June 17th.
Stay tuned. Got some cool news for you.
The Treasury Department launching the
Trump account app today in collaboration
with BNY and Robinhood. The partnership
between the public and private sector
aiming to expand access to long-term
investing for American families. Robert
Venns, the BNY CEO, writes, "We're
bringing together the administration's
vision and leadership, Robinhood's
digital accessibility, and BNY's
infrastructure." Robin, I'm pleased to
say, joined us in studio for more.
Robin, good morning.
>> It's great to be with you. This is a
very cool day, so let's spend some time
on this. So, you do the back end and
Robinhood does the front end.
>> Yeah, we're the financial manager and
Robinhood is bringing all of their
expertise in the front end, as you point
out, the app. And And don't forget the
National Design Studio as well, because
they've partnered with the Treasury
Department, with BNY, with Robinhood to
make sure, as part of the
administration's push to make uh
services more accessible and easier to
use in the US.
>> What are sign-ups like right now ahead
of this? So, 5 million accounts people
indicated interest in the in the IRS
form 4547.
Uh so, that was the first step. You had
to actually register interest. And once
you've done that, you can go to
trumpaccount.com,
uh which will actually then take you to
the app store. And then, as the app
store rankings grow, you'll see it
easily pop up on the app stores. And
then, you can download the app. And
then, you can actually register and
actually put the rest of the
information, get up and going. Now, the
actual program for investing the money
doesn't actually launch until July 4th.
So, these are ready, set, uh moves ahead
of the full go, July 4th.
>> What does this mean for the future of
BNY? Will you make money off of this, or
this is
solely for the public good?
>> Well, we we believe in the program. I
think that's really if you step back
from this whole thing, what is the
public policy? So, the administration
really deserves a lot of credit.
President Trump, Secretary Besson uh in
particular, the leadership of the
Treasury Department in driving this
forward. That actually creates the
framework to be able to have everyone in
America be able to participate in
growth. And so we provide as a company a
bunch of different services to the US
government. We do it at the state level,
the local level, and at the federal
level. And so for us, we're frankly just
proud to be able to participate in this.
Of course, as part of providing the
service, we're doing a bunch of
different things. So a Robinhood, but
it's the public policy that we are most
focused on here. What else have we done?
Well, we were the first financial firm
to actually offer matching into the
program. So remember how it works.
Everyone get who kid who's born in
America, the parent or guardian get to
be able to put a thousand bucks in if
they want as matching, or they can put
additional money. The government's going
to put a thousand bucks in. Employers
can match. We've matched with the
program. And then we're really
leveraging the power of compounding. And
this is the magic of the program. Just
Let's do the math for a second. Two
thousand bucks in right at the
beginning. A thousand bucks from the
government, and let's take the example
of a BNY employee, a thousand bucks from
us. Now you've got two thousand bucks.
You compound that with the historic rate
of return in the stock market over the
past 30 years, compound that for the
next 30 years. And a 30 in 30 years,
that kid will have 40 thousand bucks.
Now if the parent added just another 10
bucks a week
into the same program, 10 bucks a week
that they're putting into that same
account, now you'd have 140 thousand
bucks at the end of 30 years. Now that's
real money. That's participation in the
American dream. And I think that's the
program and the vision that the that the
administration and the Treasury
Department
>> Sounds like almost an incentive to have
a child in America at this point. But
when you think about post-Trump 2028,
does this have longevity? Will it
continue say a Democratic president won?
>> I think great public policy, and again
stepping back from it, what is the
policy?
The American dream, and at what a time
to be thinking about this at the 250th
of America. The American dream is one of
the things that's fueled this country
over the course of the past 250 years.
But we have a problem, which is not
everyone is participating in the
American dream. And so now you're
talking about taking the 40% of people
in America who have zero stake in the
equity markets and actually making them
stakeholders in the American dream and
doing it from birth.
So, the ability to do that, to be able
to grow, compound, participate, learn
how to invest, learn how to be part of
the capital system that we actually
have, that's a really important piece of
public policy. And so none of us can
predict the future, but this has been a
bipartisan effort from the start. There
have been folks on both sides of the
aisle
who've joined into this. There've been
wealthy philanthropists like Michael and
Susan Dell who've said they're going to
match. Employers like us are matching.
I'd encourage all employers in America
who are able to do so to be able to
offer matching to that initial seed
investment. And collectively, if we can
increase this participation, we're
really growing participation in the
American dream. And I think that is why
it's a great piece of public policy and
so I'd really hope that to see it be
able to continue.
>> It also potentially improves the delta
between people who feel really
disenchanted by Wall Street and feel
like Wall Street's really let them down
as a number of people get very wealthy
and and they aren't necessarily getting
wealthy. I just wonder what the
guardrails Yeah, what it says to try to
say that well you can participate too.
>> Absolutely. What sort of American dream
is it if we have a bunch of people who
aren't participating in it?
>> I just wonder the ideal versus the
reality. When I think about a Robinhood
account and then I think about a
teenager, some kid who has access to it,
I think about my own experience, which
is essentially it's
very high-end gambling, but essentially
gambling, right? I mean it's essentially
turning into trying to pick winners and
losers. How do you know that that's not
going to be leading to people going and
saying we're going all in on GameStop,
here's your future.
>> Well, I think this is the key to the
design. If you step back and think about
what is it that Secretary Buttigieg and
the Treasury Department, when you
actually get into the brass tacks of how
it works, you're talking about a
custodial account. So, for the right to
start with,
the kid can't touch it until after they
turn 18. So, there's no opportunity to
be able to take the money out and go and
spend recklessly. Now, once they become
18, that's the law of the land, they
become they they own they own their own
future to some extent.
>> GameStop all the way.
>> But, up until then,
it's a it's primarily about index funds.
So, that initial investment will be
index funds only. So, people aren't
having to make choice about individual
stocks. They're participating in the US
stock market. They're participating in
the growth of the economy. And that's
actually the design principle at work
here.
>> You've got to acknowledge where the YOLO
trade comes from. The YOLO trade comes
from this idea that they're not
participating, that the only way to
benefit from this economy, because they
feel frozen out from the gains, is to
take these high-stakes risks. So, in
some ways, this is a long-term goal to
do something about the kind of thing
that you're complaining about.
>> Yeah, 100% and to potentially equalize
people who feel completely left out and
are earning minimum wage as other people
do nothing and watch their money grow
and and and create income. And this is
sort of the gap that you need to bridge
in order to create a little bit more of,
you know, the market and the economy can
move a little more together.
>> Robin, I just feel like we're losing the
argument at the moment. The arguments on
the left and the more populist arguments
seem to be winning this moment. We see
this in our UK, the shift towards the
left and the politics of labor more
recently. We see it here in New York
City, the heart of capitalism, and a
socialist mayor got elected in this
city. What else needs to be done to
counter some of that to make sure that
people recognize the benefit of free
market and capitalism. The very idea
that we've seen this mass affluence in
this country because of those things.
>> Well, I think it is about inclusion
ultimately and having people be able to
participate. So, let's go back for a
second to this concept of the American
dream and let's define it. What actually
makes up the American dream? I'm an
immigrant into the US. I've lived here
for 25 years and like very excited to be
able to be part of this. Um and and if
you think about uh folks here in the US,
what do they aspire to? They aspire for
a great life for their family. They want
to be able to have a great education.
They want to be able to grow. They want
to be able to have their own home. And
so, what I think Trump accounts
represent are is one piece of the
American dream, which is the ability to
have a stake in the country, a stake in
the capitalist system. And so, to your
point, it helps to uh include that 40%
of people who today don't. But, there
are more things. It's not by itself the
solution. Financial education matters a
lot. That is actually part of the app.
If you actually look at the uh Trump
account app, financial education because
we've got to recognize that saving,
investing, starting early, compounding,
you were just having that conversation.
The value of money over time and the
value of what it means if you start
early, those make a difference. But,
housing matters as well. Owning your own
home over the past 50 years has really
become part of what a lot of people
define as owning the America being part
of the American dream and being able to
enjoy that. So, as a company, we've
taken a step in that direction. About a
month ago, we announced a new program at
BNY, which is to help people get that
first step on the ladder. If you work
for us and you earn less than 100,000
bucks, we will actually give and you're
buying your home, first home, we will
give you the equivalent of 5,000 bucks
after tax to be able to help you with
your down payment. The average home in
America, median price, about 400,000
bucks.
Our largest office is actually in
Pittsburgh. There, the median price is
about 250, 300,000 bucks. We've got a
huge one of our largest growing offices
is down in Florida. Uh there, the median
price is about 400,000 bucks.
The down The average down payment for
that type of home, call it about 30,000
bucks. Now, are there are government
assistance programs for first-time home
owners that are available. And so,
depending on where you are, that might
be 10,000, 15, even 20,000 bucks
assistance. But, you're still left with
a gap, 10, 15,000 bucks. So, for us,
that $5,000 is bridging either 50% or a
third of that gap for the prospective
homeowner, so they can get their step on
the property journey of the American
dream. So, those things really matter.
Now, we're doing that with Bank of
America, who's our partner. They're
providing subsidized mortgages to our
our own employees.
>> Brian's big on this, I know.
>> He is. And and he's also leading on this
point, which is leaning into the topic.
How can we actually help? Financial
education. So, if you can give people
through the Trump accounts a stake in
capitalism over time, so that they're
part of it and don't want to have to
throw stones at it. And you give people
a leg up on the property dream. Now,
that's that's inclusion and bringing
people along the journey. And I think
again, back to America 250.
>> What a time to be focusing on this.
Robin, you're going to stick with us
some place to say. It's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Robin Vince there, the
BNY CEO. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Funny Quinn has more. Hey, Funny.
>> Hey, John. Thanks. Ukraine President
Volodymyr Zelenskyy rejecting a partial
membership in the European Union,
arguing the country deserves full
membership because it's [music]
defending the block from Russia.
Zelenskyy responding to German
Chancellor Friedrich Merz's gesture that
Ukraine be granted an associate
membership.
Congressional Democrats losing a bid to
block the Trump administration from
prohibiting mail-in voting for anyone
not on a pre-approved list of citizens.
A federal judge ruling the legal
challenge to President Trump's executive
order is premature [music] because the
restrictions aren't in place yet.
And Best Buy rising in the pre-market
after reporting better than expected
earnings. The retailer seeing the most
growth in gaming and computing. Best Buy
previously announced CEO Corie Barry
will step down [music] later this year
and Jason Bonfig will take her place.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> Ivonne, thank you. More from Ivonne in
the next hour. Up next on the program, a
generational change in the workplace.
>> Businesses are adopting AI at an
increasing rate, but many have not yet
used it to change the way they organize
work. We could be approaching the most
significant reorganization of work in
generations.
>> Up next, more with a BNY [music] CEO,
Robin Vince, live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
I'm going to do this because Robin
won't. So, check it out. Five-year
chart, BNY. All right. Look at that dip
around 22. [music] When did you take
over? August 22?
>> September 1.
>> September 1. Okay. We're trading in the
40s. And now we've had a 200% plus gain
on that name. You're never going to say
this, but your bank [music] is the
best-performing bank stock over that
period and of all the major banks on
Wall Street. What have you and the team
been doing to get that chart to go up
and to the right so aggressively over
the last few years?
>> Well, first of all, look, I'll credit
the We're 242 years old, right? So,
we've been around for a little while.
And what is that meant We were here from
the start.
Again, in America, 250 is kind of a fun
story over time, the evolution of the
bank. But, we had a terrific set of
businesses, and those have been
accumulated over a period of time by my
predecessors. What this leadership team
has done and our broad company has done
is we recognized the power of what we
have. We have a great set of businesses.
We have an incredible client franchise.
And we decided to put culture at the
heart of a transformation. And so, we've
invested in coming together as one
company to really run the company
differently and then to show up
differently for clients. So, we've had a
commercial transformation. We've had a a
platform's transformation, but more than
anything else, it's been a cultural
reimagination of our company. And it's
incredible what you can do when you
bring a group of people together with
like-minded, with purpose, intensity,
and you really go for it, and you
deliver for clients. And that's what
That's what you can That's the result.
>> And now you've got the technological
revolution to layer on top of that in
AI. So, I'm going to ask the like cliché
interview question. How do you see your
next 5 years?
How do you see the next 5 years? What's
it look like? How different's it going
to be?
>> I'm an AI optimist. I think this is a
revolutionary technology that for sure
has to be well managed. It has to be put
in well. It's difficult to be able to
adopt AI in an established company, for
sure. So, people talk about clean sheet
of paper, sitting in the garage, you can
reinvent anything, absolutely. But
wouldn't you prefer to have a clean
sheet of paper philosophy inside a
company that already has great assets?
Then you have the best of both worlds.
And so, that's the way that we see AI.
We see it as a superpower that will help
us to be able to run the company better,
that will help us to be able to really
do more things for our clients, improve
our products, and ultimately be able to
just do new things as well. It's a
capacity creator. And so, there's a lot
of doom mongering around AI. And I
understand none of us know exactly how
the world's going to unfold. But, you
know, back in the day, all of the folks
who were stable hands and who who ran
horse and carriage businesses, I'm sure
they didn't love the the creation of the
motor car. But they also couldn't
imagine that there would be new
professions and trades that were built
around that new industry. And guess
what? There are now more jobs. They're
just different jobs, and they've
evolved. So,
>> So, Robin, you don't see AI as replacing
lower value human capital.
>> Ooh. I I
>> That is what one of your colleagues
>> Not one of colleagues. Um
>> Well, peers.
>> I I I understand again, there's there's
an aspect of thinking about AI, and I
think he has walked back those comments,
but I I think there's an aspect of AI
where you can get all pessimistic and
negative about it. For sure, it's going
to make some roles unnecessary. And so,
there's a reskilling that's very, very
important. And And as a leaders, we have
to own that. We have to own that at the
government level. We have to own that at
the company level. We have to have some
individual responsibility
around increasing all of our AI IQ. If
there's a new technology, and you don't
know how to use it, and you don't care,
and you want to hide from it, and wish
it would got uninvented somehow, I mean,
to me, that's fantasy land. It's It's
about how can you accept the reality of
the fact that it's here. There's no
great technology that's really ever been
uninvented. And so, we might regret the
creation of AI. That's an individual
sort of point of view. Free country,
everybody can have their own point of
view. But the reality is it's here. So,
I would prefer, and certainly what we're
doing in our company is to just deal
with that reality, get into it, and try
to equip everybody. And I think this is
a public-private sector. We started off
talking about Trump accounts, the public
and private coming together to enable
good things for the United States. I
think AI is the same thing. It requires
public leadership. It requires private
leadership and coming together to
upskill people for the future.
>> 30 seconds left. Will the intern class
at BNY be bigger or smaller in the next
few years?
>> tripled it since 2022. You put that
chart up of what we've done. We've
tripled our intern and analyst classes
over that period of time. And because we
think that's a cohort that is naturally
AI inclined. And so, we want to continue
to bring these new skills, these fresh
people into our organization. But we
also want to equip our existing teams.
So, we've rolled out 170,000 hours of AI
education last year. We're doing a full
week of training for what we call AI
pioneers to be able to get people to be
super proficient so they can build
agents, use our platform across the
company, Eliza. That's the future for
us.
>> Will be joining the class. Robin, it's
good to see you. Appreciate it. Thank
you. Robin Vince there, the BNY CEO.
Equity futures this morning slightly
softer. Up next we'll catch up with
Kitty Kaminsky [music] of Alpha Simplex.
See Teresa Ghilarducci Forrester, Matt
Lazelli of Deutsche Bank, Matt Stucky of
Northwestern [music] Mutual Wealth
Management. Inflation data 34 minutes
away.
>> This cycle has been very much
infrastructure CAPEX driven.
>> I do think you favor tech here.
>> We're bullish on the S&P, but we're
probably even more bullish on this rally
broadening out.
>> The basic thrust of the market is to go
higher.
>> Missing out on the upside is like
participating in the downside.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your price action and scores look like
this. Pulling back, we've gone 5 days
without losses. We're looking like we
might not be able to stretch that to day
six [music] at the moment at least.
We're down by quarter of 1% on the S&P.
On the Nasdaq we're down by 0.4. In the
bond market setting the tone for some of
these moves. This move right here up
three basis points on the one end of the
curve 4.06%. [music]
Crude pushing yields higher. WTI and
Brent. Brent crude up by close to 3%.
Let's call it 97. And setting the tone
for the rest of the trading day might be
this. [music] Another read on inflation
at 8:30 Eastern time.
>> It's expected to come in hotter than the
previous read at 3.3% well above that 2%
[music] level that is the bogey for the
Federal Reserve. Remember this is the
key inflation metric that the Federal
Reserve tends to [music] look at for
now. That could change going forward. At
the same time, it sort of underscored by
some of the earnings that we've gotten
from retailers that continue to show
that despite [music] some of the higher
prices, consumers are spending. Even
Dollar Tree, which has dollar in its
name. It means it has a higher price
point and it is seeing people still come
through their doors. So, this gives you
a sense of how there is a stickier
inflation even amid some pushback at the
lower [music] end. This print is going
to be really important and it's going to
be the start of the journey really for
the Federal Reserve potentially,
possibly, most likely at minimum to
remove the easing bias when it comes to
how they're feeling, especially after
what we've heard from [music] all the
Fed officials, that the balance of risk
now is to both and they do see this
concern when it comes to inflation.
>> $2.00 Tree doesn't quite work, does it?
Doesn't quite have the same
>> [music]
>> $2.99 Tree.
>> $15.00 Tree.
>> Your point on the easing bias, by the
way. And if you're just joining us,
welcome to the program. I think Lisa
made [music] the point of the morning.
Think about all the Fed speak you've
heard in the last few weeks. Can you
pick one person that supported the
easing bias of the Federal Reserve,
which is curious because the data hasn't
changed [music] in between that meeting
and where we are today. We haven't seen
anything that would change anything at
all. So, what did they discuss at that
meeting that kept that bias in that
statement?
>> So, there are a couple of potential
options. Number one, they wanted to give
Kevin Warsh a clean slate as you've been
mentioning. [music] Number two, they
want to job on the market into a more
hawkish position to do the work for them
so that they don't have to consider
hiking rates, but they are getting on
board with the idea of potentially
removing the easing bias, but they still
are all biased to restrictive policy
that they are going to have to cut going
forward. And then, there's a third
point, which is maybe we don't really
have a clear understanding of what's
going on on the FOMC. Maybe there is
something to be said before we got
guidance sort of losing its cloud. I
mean, was Governor Waller really that
convincing that he single-handedly kept
that easing bias in the statement?
>> There seem to be [music] some
separation, some daylight, if you will,
between the minutes and what was was
in them compared to what the chairman
was doing at the news [music]
conference. There was daylight there,
and there's massive daylight between the
so-called consensus the chairman was
meant to reflect in the news conference
[music] and the subsequent Fed speak
we've heard from basically everyone on
the committee.
>> Look, this market is used to being
manipulated. It's used to being a
jawboned. It clearly [music] views this
as a whole host of jawboning, and yet
the market has actually moved ahead of
the Federal Reserve. And this is
interesting to me
>> [music]
>> that in some ways these Fed officials
are coming around the view that the
market is putting out there, whether or
not they would actually come to a hiking
bias another story. Okay, the easing
bias [music] is going to be removed in
June. I think that we probably have to
take that with some with some degree of
certainty. Going forward, this is the
debate in markets. How
how reluctant or not is this Fed to
[music] actually execute a rate hike?
How high is the bar in terms of how the
data has to come in for them to actually
tighten policy? That I think is
increasingly debate and is getting
priced in [music] the bond market.
>> Inflation closer to four than three is
deeply uncomfortable for this committee.
Coming up this hour, we catch up with
Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex as the
equity rally [music] stalls following
fresh strikes. Matt Luzzetti of Deutsche
Bank reacting to breaking inflation
data, and Matt Stucky of Northwestern
Mutual on why he's underweight US large
caps. That conversation later this
morning. We begin this hour with stocks
edging lower as investors grow cautious
over an interwar. Katie Kaminsky of
Alpha Simplex writing despite the recent
rally in equity markets, there is clear
fatigue over the continued conflict in
the Middle East. Katie joins us now for
more. Katie, welcome to the program.
Let's just dissect the bond market
sell-off, the individual drivers of it.
What's been driving your tie?
>> Well, this is a good question because
what we have really seen, and I want to
point this out, and I really liked what
Lisa said, is that you've seen the bond
market get ahead. So, the bond market
has been selling off pretty aggressively
since the geopolitical risk sort of got
into the markets. We have seen some
retracement more recently in terms of
yields coming back down. So, people
thinking that some of this inflation
uncertainty is going away, but today
just sort of reiterates that it's not
gone yet. So, we're kind of seeing that
come back again today. So, you can see
that right in the chart that, you know,
yields have gone up substantially on
inflation concerns, but that hasn't
dissipated yet.
>> Do you think we're overestimating the
potential for yields to fall on a
resolution in Iran? Is there more to
this move up than just the Middle East?
>> That's a good question. I think the
positioning of the Fed relative to other
central banks is also important. So, if
you look at where the US is sitting and
how much higher US rates are, that
matters. But also the fact that other
markets outside the United States is
pricing in things like hikes. That does
complicate sort of the relative
positioning of the US Fed and sort of
add on top of that sort of a changing
Fed dynamic. So, I do think it's not
just inflation, it's also figuring out
how monetary policy is going to be set
in a new FOMC.
>> This is a great point, Katie. How much
is the move that we're seeing in bonds
in the United States have more to do
with Japan and the in Europe frankly
than it does the United States?
>> I think there's a mix. I mean, just
given how much bond moves have priced
out cuts and move towards a higher
chance of hikes. If you look outside the
US, for example, the ECB or Japan,
even also Australia, you start to see a
much bigger shift globally towards a
potential for hikes. And that means that
overall across all regions that there's
more of a chance of hikes, which could
put pressure on the Fed. But remember,
US rates are higher. So, that means that
we have less
need to move as quickly as other
regions.
>> You follow trends and you follow some of
the momentum that we're seeing in
different technical readings across the
market. And I wonder how much we've seen
a breakdown between yields going up and
stocks responding in any way, shape or
form. I mean, how divorced is this
relative to history when the common
mantra was when yields went up, stocks
went down. Risk assets used to wobble,
especially if it was coming with some
mixed readings on the consumer appetite.
>> So, I love that you asked this question
because we look at short-term
correlations between stocks and bonds.
And whenever inflation is the key driver
of stock bond movements, you tend to see
positive co-movement or positive
correlation. And we have seen consistent
positive correlation between stocks and
bonds since March. It is not
unprecedented. We've been seeing that
since particularly 2022. And it's just a
point that stocks and bonds, or bonds
basically do not provide a hedge during
periods when inflation is a persistent
risk. And geopolitical risk is a key
driver of inflation uncertainty. So, I
think for now, bonds are going to be
much trickier for investors to deal
with. And until we see uh this inflation
pulse go through and we figure out how
much oil higher oil prices changes the
inflation dynamic, you can't count on
bonds uh when things are tough.
>> At some point though, will what's going
on in the conflict and the inflation
driver start to hit equities at all?
>> It should at some point because how I
see geopolitical risk is that it
initially becomes an inflation uh
impulse which is a stressor to bonds.
But at the point where we start to see
that we need to have tightening, we need
to have uh we start to see an effect on
growth, that's when you start to see
that the equity markets will react. We
have seen the equity markets react to
higher yields this month. So, that might
be an indication [clears throat] that
there is starting to be some concern
about higher yields actually being a a
negative driver for equities.
>> As Lisa As Lisa Donovan is talking about
all morning, likely we're going to see
the Fed remove the easing bias. Would
that be something that could be a
catalyst for this equity market, maybe
to go to be softer, or is it already
baked in?
>> I mean, I think I I would kind of assume
that it's somewhat baked in at this
point. I do think it is very interesting
that they haven't removed it just given
where we are in the current geopolitical
landscape. I mean, just the idea that
you could cut rates in a period where
you have a huge oil spike, it just kind
of already puts the Fed in a neutral
stance already. So, I think some of it
is already baked in, but there's always
room for surprise where you could
actually see that maybe this conflict
accelerates more or you have sort of
more of a chance that that could be even
less of a case that, you know, you are
going to have a resolution. That could
be more negative for bonds.
>> Kathy, I was going to say Kathy Kaminsky
there of Alpha Simplex. It's such a
different conversation speaking to
someone in fixed income or commodities
at the moment then you speak to the
equity guys
upgrading their outlook for stocks left,
right, and center. Last week it was CIBC
and Chris Harvey. He went to 8K plus.
This week it was Ben Snyder over at
Goldman Sachs going to 8K. You see Jamie
Dimon yesterday of JP Morgan. Check this
out for a quote. It's gung-ho folks.
Companies are busy. There's a lot of
exuberance out there. That describes
this moment for many of the largest
companies in corporate America.
>> He even went on to say that they're
over-earning which created a little bit
of a stir in terms of its share price.
The bonuses that some of the traders are
getting are sky-high because the
performance has been there.
This is actually a frothy market is what
you hear from a lot of banking
executives when you speak to them
despite where interest rates are. So,
regardless of potentially underneath the
hood of the averages, there is a
question here about restrictiveness. Can
you arguably say that this Fed funds
rate is restrictive if you see frothy
market conditions with a prolonged pace
of rates at this level and that is the
reason why the bond market has moved
ahead of the Fed commentary.
>> Bill Dudley's words. Imagine if he was
still at the New York Fed. Former New
York Fed president, quote, it is
incredible to judge monetary policy as
restrictive. Bill Dudley. Imagine if
Williams was saying that right now at
the New York Fed, the kind of impact
that would have.
>> That would definitely cause some
ripples. Some yips yippiness at the
front of the yield curve that already is
starting to get a little bit yippy.
Longer term, we have to look at all of
these dynamics. There is a breakdown
though in terms of the efficacy of Fed
funds policy right now at a time when
there is a interest rate agnostic
borrowing base, which is all of the
hyperscalers that have an existential
need to build out and to borrow
trillions of dollars. And that is what
people are struggling with, reconciling
the many different pockets of economies
that there are around the country.
>> That's why there's a bull parade in the
equity market equity futures right now
just about negative by 2/10 of 1%
pulling back from all-time highs. With
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief, Vani Quinn has more.
Hey Vani.
>> Hey Don, thank you. [music] US officials
saying Iran violated its ceasefire
agreement with the United States. In a
post on X, Central Command calling
Iran's [music] launch of a ballistic
missile toward Kuwait a quote egregious
violation.
American Airlines CEO Robert Isom says
travel demand was tremendous in the
first quarter. Speaking with Lisa,
[music] Isom saying both business and
leisure travel has improved despite the
headwinds in the global economy.
>> Year-over-year revenue improved 10-11%
and we're forecasting revenue to to
improve
15% you know, year-over-year in a year
where
price of fuel has spiked four or five
billion dollars. We're still projecting
the same type of profitability that we
had last [music] year.
That means good things.
>> Isom going on to say American intends to
grow its premium seating at twice the
rate of its main [music] cabin seating.
Perella Weinberg is cutting almost 10%
of its workforce including a dozen
partners. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the dismissals will be
concentrated in industry subsectors that
have lagged the broader markets. And
that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vani, thank you. More from Vani in
about 30 minutes time. Up next we'll get
you some money calls plus Sucharita
[music] Ghosal of Forrester on an
impressive set of results from some of
the retailers out there this morning.
Best Buy up about 10% in the pre-market
earlier on. We'll have more on that in
just a moment.
>> I'm an AI optimist. I I think this is a
revolutionary technology
>> [music]
>> that for sure has to be well managed. It
has to be put in well. If that's the way
that we see AI. [music] We see it as a
superpower that will help us to be able
to run the company better, improve our
products, and ultimately be able to just
do new things as well. It's a capacity
creator.
>> That was the BMW CEO Robin Vince. Great
to catch up with Robin just moments ago.
Check out the full interview on
bloomberg.com and of course on the
Bloomberg terminal. If you just joined
us, welcome to the program in about 15
minutes time. Inflation in America
expectations for [music] PCE to jump to
3.8%
in the month of April. A full percentage
[music] point above where it was in
February. And as we mentioned a little
bit earlier, the biggest two-month
acceleration since [music] 2021.
The Fed feeling a little bit offside
right now going into that June meeting.
Equity futures pulling back by 2/10 of
1% [music] on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq
down by 0.3. In the bond market,
Treasuries, twos, tens, 30s [music]
looking like this this morning. Two-year
yields in America climbing high for five
consecutive [music] weeks. Can we avoid
week six? We're up this morning by three
basis points. 4.06% [music]
encouraged by this move in crude. Up by
2 to 3% throughout much of this morning.
Brent at 9660, WTI at 91. That's the
price action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Barclays cutting its
price target on Salesforce keeping an
overweight rating citing [music]
relatively small quarterly revenue in
the overall context. Your second call
from JP Morgan lifting its price target
on Marvell to 240. The analyst
highlighting growth across all key
product lines. That stock is up by 1.4%
and finally Wells Fargo boosting its
price target on Snowflake to 300 saying
its growth and outlook surpass [music]
even the high end of buy-side bulls.
That stock this morning, check it out.
Up close to 40% percent of 38% in the
pre-market. Unreal. Impressive results
elsewhere too from the retailers,
believe it or not, in a strong [music]
sign for the US consumer. More earnings
on deck later, Costco and Gap after the
closing bell. Bloomberg's Emily Chang
joins us now for more. Emily, welcome to
the program. We were looking for some
beats, we got some. Just walk us through
what Best Buy and others are doing,
where they're finding success.
>> So what we're seeing is that even in the
face of
um
economic pressure, consumers are still
spending when the price is right. Um I
think it's interesting to look at a
store like Dollar Tree. They saw fewer
visits, so people are pulling back on
how much they go shopping, but then when
they go shopping, they're spending more.
So they saw their average ticket price
was up. Um
Dollar Tree, Best Buy, Kohl's, all beat,
did better than expected. So people
still are shopping, which is an
encouraging sign.
>> Emily Chang there with the latest.
Emily, thank you. That's an encouraging
sign. People are still spending even
though prices are getting much higher.
>> And the fact that you're saying stock
prices up as much as they are means that
people have already been somewhat
skeptical and you have seen these shares
really beaten up as a result of that
skepticism. The idea that the overall
index is doing really well masks a lot
of bad breath, a lot of really narrow
leadership, and the question that a lot
of people have is, are you going to miss
out the rally in the other parts of the
market as you realize that this strength
is further and goes further than uh just
artificial intelligence.
>> Such a rich guy. Forrester has this to
say, consumer spend is high because of
gas and fuel prices. The average
retailer is challenged getting shoppers
to spend. Siturita joins us now for
more. Siturita, welcome to the program.
I asked this question earlier this week.
Where's the sweet spot and what are we
learning this morning about where that
sweet spot might be?
>> Well, the statistics that I'm looking at
aren't if these companies beat Wall
Street. I'm looking if their comp store
sales and their overall revenues are up
or down. So, we can take a look at for
instance, Dollar Tree, their numbers
were actually up um from and
year-over-year standpoint um for in the
high single digits. That suggests to me
that the consumer is really looking for
value. On the other hand, Kohl's numbers
continue to decline. It exceeded Wall
Street expectations um but I would
really say for the purpose of
understanding um retail, who cares? You
know, you really are your numbers up or
down um compared to last year. Their
numbers are down compared to last year
um and that means that the department
store sector, particularly in mass,
continues to be struggle struggling and
consumers are um switching away from
some of those discretionary items into
essentials that companies like Dollar
Tree sells. So, um I think that's really
what's happening in the face of uh high
inflation numbers.
>> That said, Siturita, it seems like
people's expectations are even lower
than the reality. I mean, just based on
the earnings response the the uh share
price response to the earnings. What do
you make of that? I mean, is all of that
weakness that we're seeing in certain
segments of the shopping mall area
already been beaten up sufficiently that
potentially it's created value?
>> Exactly. And I think that that's really
the Kohl's story is that expectations
have been so low, sales have been so
challenged for so long um that if you
are performing at par or you're barely
um you know, kind of showing like
negative numbers that are not um
terrible um if it's like you're off by
1% or 1 and 1/2% um that's a win. So, I
think that that's really what we're
seeing. Um it's not really a sign of um
strength for that particular retailer,
um but it's it's all about beating low
expectations, a very, very low bar. Um
the the the the overall macro story is
that consumers um are spending, they are
just not spending in these discretionary
categories. We still have a K-shaped
economy. People are spending on the
essentials, and right now one of those
essentials is fuel and gas. And uh those
prices are out of control, candidly.
>> So, Trinh, all this makes sense
intellectually, theoretically. And then
we get the earnings, which show
strength, which show reaffirming
full-year forecasts, which show that
they're basically the same as where they
were before we saw oil prices skyrocket.
Where's the cognitive dissonance here
between what people are telling us, what
we see with our own eyes with costs, and
the results that we're getting where
margins are expanding, and even places
that cater to the lower end of the K,
like Dollar Tree, are beating
expectations?
>> Well, in the case of um companies like
Dollar Tree, the beating expectations is
both a combination of the consumer in
the bottom of the K switching their
dollar share to that merchant, um in
addition to the fact that they're riding
the wave of inflation, too, and able to
charge higher for a lot of these
essentials, even though um the average
um ticket or the average transaction
volume may be a little bit lower. So, so
I think that's really what we have going
going on. Um and again, you know, kind
of it is um those essential items where
we've we've we've been seeing higher um
prices for for a number of years and
this is part of the reason that consumer
confidence is as low it is as it is and
why shoppers are so frustrated is
because those essential goods are not
they're not where we're exhibiting
value. So So I think that's really what
is is happening
but again it is more because the
consumer is being forced to purchase um
these essential goods for a higher
price. It's certainly not that they are
leaning into discretionary items. We're
not seeing strength that is outpacing
any other category in sectors like like
apparel for instance or footwear.
>> Do you see any evidence that the higher
income consumer is starting to face some
cracks?
>> Not yet.
There is they when we look at the higher
income consumer a significant part of
their net worth is going to be in
investments like real estate or in the
stock market and those asset classes
still continue to do incredibly well for
higher income consumers
and in terms of their spend level a lot
they're even trading down. That's the
only crack that we're seeing
um but so they're able to bolster some
of the sales at companies that are value
merchants like a Walmart or a Costco.
Um the only other place where we may see
a crack is in luxury retail. Very very
high-end brands like LVMH or an Hermes
um they may be not doing as strongly as
they have in the past but that's not
driven by US retail consumers. That's
more because the Asian consumer is is
more distressed.
>> Has some problems in the Middle East as
well. Does not have. Sucharita thank
you. Sucharita Khandly the a forest to
check out Best Buy up by 7%. This is
what people want. My experience of Best
Buy bought a TV
really tight logistics, very fast
delivery, perfect, seamless. That's
exactly what you want. That was my
experience with that company more
recently.
>> Well, try buying a Nintendo Switch, too,
because evidently that's what people are
doing. They're going there and they're
saying, "We need to play video games."
And so, John, when you start playing
video games, you'll fully understand the
draw to Best Buy, the excitement in
seeing it in real action.
>> That's not going to happen.
>> a gamer.
>> I'm not a gamer. I'm not.
>> Maybe FIFA, though. I could see you
getting into
>> to do that when I was a kid. Yeah, but
not a kid anymore.
Futures this morning down by 0.2. Too
harsh. Too harsh. Too harsh. Down by
0.2% on the S&P. I'm not judging. I'm
not. Might be. Just I'm not.
>> say right.
>> Inflation data 5 minutes away. Let's
move on. PCE in focus, the Fed's
preferred read. The Fed's gauge right
now could be closer to 4% in about 5
minutes time, closer to the four than
three, and getting further further away
from two. And they've missed two
for much of the [music] last 5 years.
And now they seem to be waking up to the
idea that that might be a problem. Matt
Luzzetti, Deutsche Bank, joins us next
to react. From New York City this
morning, good morning to you all. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 negative by 0.2%
yields just a little bit higher at the
front end of the curve up by three basis
points, and crude fuel in the move.
Brent and WTI higher by more than 2%.
[music]
>> [music]
>> by [music] three basis points. The 4.06%
with crude elevating and fueling this
move. We're up by 2 to 3% throughout
much of this [music] morning. With your
inflation data and more, let's cross
over to Mike McKee. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Where to begin?
Let's do jobless claims cuz it's not
going to really move the markets today.
215,000
up from 210,000, but still showing a
stable labor market. Now, as far as
inflation, which is the Fed's main
concern these days, we're looking at PCE
inflation up 4/10 of a percent, a tick
lower than what had been expected. On a
year-over-year basis, that still puts us
at 3.8% up from 3 and 1/2%. Remember,
the headline PCE is the Fed's 2% target.
Core PCE up 2/10 of a percent, a little
bit less also than expected, and that
puts us at 3.3%,
the expected figure up from 3.2%
in March. So, more inflation
on a year-over-year basis. Personal
income was flat on the month. Personal
spending up by half a percent, which was
as expected. That's a little bit down
from the 9/10 that we saw back in March.
So, some movement on the consumer side,
a little bit less spending, but still
fairly strong with inflation up. Now,
the biggest question is
how much of that spending was because of
inflation, the increased spending was
because of inflation. We also have
durable goods orders out, up 7.9%
on a headline basis after an 8/10% gain
in the month of March. Now, you take out
transportation and it falls to 1.1%. So,
there's a big Boeing effect there, and
then capital goods orders non-defense
ex-air. This is what really matters,
down 1.1% after rising 3.9% in March.
The expectation was for a 4/10 gain. So,
some mixed news on consumers and
business spending and some as expected
news on inflation. It's rising still.
>> Mike McKee, thank you. Just on the
margin, not as bad as expected. So,
equity futures with the smallest of
bounces off the low. Equity futures down
by close to 2/10 of 1%. Yield to the
front end of the curve were advancing by
close to three basis points, now up by
around 2 to 4.05%.
Much of the move this morning, the
epicenter for it out of the commodity
market. Brent and WTI still higher by
more than 2%. Inflation is elevated,
bottom line. And ultimately for this
Federal Reserve, this number still
uncomfortable. Even if you get a small
downside surprise on a month-over-month
rate, this number year-over-year still
uncomfortable.
>> Especially because people continue to
spend. What I find notable, you're
right, on the margins this is a downside
surprise, the right kind of downside
surprise, but still we're at 3.3%
year-over-year. When you take a look at
the personal income and the personal
spending and the real personal spending,
you can see that income is actually
slowing down, or actually not growing at
all, but spending is increasing either
at pace or above expectations. This
suggests that people are
dwindling their savings in a significant
way. I just wonder how sustainable this
type of trend is if the averages reflect
anything real on the on the line.
>> it's the right question, Lisa. Mike, I
hope you're standing by still, because I
think that's the ultimate question for
economists right now. Can the spending
keep up with higher prices if you're not
seeing it in incomes in this country?
>> Well, that's the problem because people
tend to spend out of their incomes, out
of their paychecks, especially at the
lower income levels. Uh the folks who
get uh more money from assets aren't
affected, but the personal savings rate
dropped significantly to 2.6%, so it
does show people were going into their
savings to keep up the level of
spending. And so, that uh along with the
drop in the overall spending rate
portends maybe a consumer slowdown
ahead. People paying more for gasoline,
people paying more for food, they would
may have less for other categories.
>> Mike McKee, appreciate it, sir. Mike
McKee down in Washington, D.C. Matt
Luzzetti of Deutsche Bank with us around
a table here in New York. Matt, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Morning.
>> What's the first take, the early take
for you?
>> Yeah, you notice the the the inflation
data. I think that we contextualize it
within the past several years and we
think about 3.3% as being the highest
since 2023. Now now obviously that's not
a good outcome, but I think if you strip
out the the the COVID-driven inflation,
this is actually the highest core PC
inflation rate since 1992.
Um we are moving in the wrong direction
away from from 2%. Uh and our view is
that this is not simply about temporary
supply-driven factors, tariffs and
energy prices, that there is an
underlying demand force that is more
important, trend inflation is stuck
closer to 3% and that therefore it is
entirely appropriate for Fed officials
to be thinking about raising rates.
Thinking or actually raising rates?
>> So far thinking. Uh our view is that the
Fed is on hold, that they are roughly at
neutral. I think you need to have a a
shift in the narrative um from the Fed
that needs to take place. They need to
down weight the idea uh that this is
about temporary forces. They need to
down weight the idea that the labor
market is not a source of inflationary
pressures cuz I I agree with that. I
think as you look more broadly, the
economy is a source of inflationary
pressures. The the CAPEX data that we
just got was a little bit softer, uh but
you were looking at uh very strong uh
AI-driven uh CAPEX growth. When you look
at the output gap according to the CBO,
it's plus 1.1 percentage point. You
would expect that inflation is well
above the Fed's target given that output
gap and given that demand backdrop.
>> Can the economy remain inflationary if
people's incomes are not keeping pace
and if they're spending out of savings
pools that are dwindling?
>> Yeah, so I I think that's that's an open
question and and the the income data
this morning was definitely
disappointing. I think that you have a
consumer backdrop that can weather
higher energy prices for a period of
time. We have the benefits of the one
big beautiful bill from tax cuts. You
have a labor market that is producing
meaningful income growth. You have one
4% nominal income growth year-over-year.
Wealth-to-income ratios are near record
high levels, so I think the aggregate
picture can continue to support a
consumer that it that is spending.
Obviously, that's not true across the
income distribution. You have households
at the lower end that are more
negatively impacted by gas prices, more
negatively impacted by by higher
interest rates. And so, you're still
going to have this great dispersion, I
think, across consumers.
>> If the Fed did hike rates, would that
slow any of the inflation in the economy
that seems to be independent of Fed
funds?
>> Yes, I think that's you know,
a question that I get asked a lot. In
particular, is AI-driven CapEx going to
slow simply because the Fed raises rates
by 25 or 50 basis points? And and the
answer is probably no.
The other you know, point is that if it
is demand-driven, you have to soften or
weaken the economy in order to bring
inflation back down to 2%. I think there
was a period of time where we were all
optimistic that the Fed and the economy
was going to be saved by supply forces.
That the big labor supply boom that we
had and productivity growth was going to
save the economy and bring inflation
down. You know, we are now entering a
sixth year of of high inflation.
My view is that there's not very much
evidence that you can get inflation back
down to target without demand weakening.
The question is, when does the Fed
conclude that they are accommodative and
they're not restrictive enough in order
to get inflation down to 2%?
>> think it would be appropriate for them
to just shift to a 3% goal or a 2%
average, say, over 100 years? You know,
this idea of you know, eventually
essentially, right? I mean, it's sort of
like you know, transitory. We're all
transitory in this stage of the
universe, but I'm just wondering from
your perspective, you know, is 3% a more
appropriate level at an industrial
buildout like the one that we're seeing?
>> I think it's a reasonable conversation
to be having if the Fed was at 2% today.
Having missed their target for so long
and being worried about inflation
expectations and an inflation psychology
that is embedding higher inflation,
a central bank has to be worried that
moving the goal post when you haven't
hit your target, it actually makes it
worse. So, if they move it to three, why
not four? And I think I think you know,
people care about that that difference.
>> Let's get to the headline. How offside
are they? How much do they need to hike
in your mind for next year?
>> So, again, our baseline is that they're
they're on hold here, but but we wrote a
piece recently with with my colleague
Matt Ruskin. You look across a variety
of policy rules which just guides you
about where the Fed probably should be
given the current economic backdrop, and
they are 50 to 160 basis points above
current levels for the Fed funds rate.
>> So if they start moving, it's not once,
it's not 25.
>> I I think that's the other part. I
think, you know, if the Fed concludes
that they are too accommodative, that
inflation is embedded and a problem,
it'd be very strange for them to
conclude that they are precisely off by
25 basis points.
I think that they would have to view
that a sequence of rate hikes is likely
necessary.
>> actually think they do need rate hikes,
but you have them on hold. Why? Because
of politics won't allow it?
>> Well, no, I think we are optimistic
still somewhat on the inflation front. I
think that you I don't want to sound
that optimistic, but I think that
there's scope potentially that inflation
could come down next year. Shelter
inflation is coming off. There are still
tariff-driven inflation effects,
but in part what I have to do as well is
is read the Fed's reaction function.
It's not at all about politics. I mean,
I think if you were to hear Chair Powell
and Governor Waller, which I think were
out of politics, there's just an
embedded narrative that inflation is not
a problem, and they're giving time for
inflation to come down. And so I think
that that's in part you know, my call is
both the economic forecast, but then
reading the Fed's reaction function. The
Fed's reaction function is not there for
hikes yet.
>> You mentioned the consumer being able to
get by with things like the one big
beautiful bill. The tax refunds now have
been spent
many times over according to people that
come on this program. They were used
Christmas holidays. They were used
electricity the start of the year. Now
they're being used for higher gasoline
costs. At some point, are they done? Has
the consumer now really just dried up in
terms of the
extra fiscal power they had?
>> Yeah, so I think there's the refund part
and then there's the additional tax cuts
that everybody is benefiting from from
this year.
And that part I think has not been
completely dried up. But but you know,
the longer that this war drags on, the
longer that energy prices remain
elevated for longer, the more worried
you become about that outcome.
At the same time, the more we muddle
through where energy prices are high
enough that they're inflationary but not
high enough to actually significantly
damage the consumer and growth outlook,
I think that's the most hawkish outcome
for the Fed. That's essentially what
Governor Waller has talked about where
we're kind of around $100 per barrel on
oil. There's second order effects
spilling over into two of the inflation
data. You get worried about inflation
expectations moving higher. So for me,
that's actually the most hawkish outcome
that we just remain in this muddle
through scenario with energy prices near
where they are.
>> Why do you financial conditions never
matter when markets are going up? I
mean, I ask this because ultimately the
one
method of transmission that the Fed
could execute would be curtailing the
party in some of the frothiest of
stocks, which is the one bear case that
people say, but it's not going to happen
cuz the Fed isn't going to hike rates.
At what point are financial conditions
driving some of the inflation that we're
seeing because people feel really
wealthy when they take a look at their
index funds. If they bought the Nasdaq,
if they bought Micron 2 weeks ago, they
feel amazing and they're going to go out
and buy luxury goods. At what point is
that going to become a problem for the
Fed?
>> Look, I I think it is already somewhat a
problem. If you look at the Fed's own
models for FCIs, financial conditions
indexes, they suggest that financial
conditions are adding a percentage point
to growth over the next year. That
they're additive of a percentage point.
That is nearly as much as they were back
in 2022 before the Fed started to raise
rates. So if you think about an economy
where financial conditions are
extraordinarily accommodative, where
fiscal policy is accommodative, we have
an AI driven structural boom happening
in CapEx.
I think that would make you not all that
surprised that inflation is actually
well above the Fed's target and and
looks stickier than anticipated. Yes,
oil prices is a drag, but it is
offsetting these number of tailwinds
that I think are continuing to support
growth.
>> Alicia, you basically communicated the
cash carry argument, which I think is
probably the right one. That if we drop
the easing bias early enough, they would
have said a tightening of financial
conditions that would have done some of
the work for them. Of course, markets
have gone in completely the other
direction because the idea that they
still have an easing bias in the face of
what we see right now in the economy
where growth at the average level is
pretty decent and what you see in energy
and broader inflation is pretty amazing
to see.
>> And the bond market is getting on board
with the idea of inflation being a bit
stickier. Stock markets markets are not
buying the story that bonds are telling
them. They're saying, "We don't think
that a warsh Fed is going to hike rates.
They might jawbone all they want, but we
are not listening." But when you talk to
strategists, if they were to hike rates,
that would be another story.
>> the note this week, by the way. The
point you make is the the right point.
This model through that we've been
talking about. The idea that things
aren't terrible
right now with energy, that we're not at
200, we're at 100. So you're at this
muddle through where you don't see the
demand destruction, but you do see the
elevated prices. That's a nightmare for
the Fed. The Fed knows what to do with
extremes. They don't know what to do
with this and that's why they're in a
bit of a bind.
>> Yeah, a supply-side shock that was
actually a shock would actually be much
more obvious. This is a supply-side
unfortunate reality for the United
States. It's absolutely a shock in other
places and that's why you see the Fed
not seeing the destruction in terms of
demand they would otherwise see.
>> Now, what did you say if you strip out
the pandemic? This is the worst
inflation number since when?
>> 1992 for core PCE inflation. I think
that broader context is is really
important here. Uh yes, we you know, we
think about everything within the
context of COVID, but COVID was the
biggest inflation shock in 40 years. Uh
today's core PCE inflation would be the
highest since 1992 if not for the
COVID-driven inflation shock.
>> And we've got an easing bias. Amazing.
Matt, thank you so
>> that'll come out in June.
>> Thank you. Matt Luzzetti at Deutsche
Bank. You're not the only one who
expects that change on June 17th. For an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief, Bonnie Quinn
has more. Hey, Bonnie.
>> Hey, John. Recapping the data we just
got then the PCE, the Fed's preferred
inflation gauge, meeting estimates. The
index up 3.8% [music] in April, marking
the biggest two-month acceleration since
2021. Jobless claims coming in higher
than expected at 215,000 [music]
for the week ending May 23rd.
Apple's overhaul of Siri will be a
centerpiece of its [music] next iPhone,
iPad, and Mac software. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg the update will
feature a new interface and chatbot
style app. Siri will have the ability to
understand personal data and analyze
[music] on-screen content.
In sports, the Carolina Hurricanes are
one win away from the Stanley Cup final
after shutting out Montreal on home ice.
The Canes scored three goals in the
first period and Frederik Andersen
stopped all 18 shots he faced. The
series winner will face
the Vegas Golden Knights for the cup.
[music] And that is your Bloomberg
Brief, John.
>> Iffy funny, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with Matt Stucky of
Northwestern Mutual on why he's
underweight US large caps with an equity
market [music]
at all-time highs. That conversation up
next.
>> The inflation data, I think [music] that
we contextualize it within the past
several years and we think about 3.3% as
being the highest since 2023. Now, now
obviously that's not a good outcome.
>> [music]
>> But I think if you strip out the the the
COVID-driven inflation, this is actually
the highest core PC inflation rate since
1992. We [music] are moving in the wrong
direction.
>> Frightening matters and that is deeply
uncomfortable framing for this Federal
Reserve under Chairman Powell [music]
before we even get to Chairman Walsh.
That was Matt Luzzetti of Deutsche Bank.
Equity futures this morning recovering
[music] off the back of recent economic
data. Equity futures down by not even a
tenth of 1%. Five days, no losses, could
become day six. The Nasdaq down by just
0.06%. [music] In the bond market,
yields were higher at the front end of
the curve by close to three basis
points. Now up just by one. You'll
notice a rally building at the long
[music] end. Not a big rally, I know,
but yields determined. A little bit
lower, 10s, 30s. Not a great read for
growth. This mix in the data [music] we
got 20 minutes ago.
>> Yeah, you saw income not keeping pace
with the spending that people are
executing. You're seeing savings rates
coming in. You're seeing spending
continue [music] to outpace what people
can see from their wage increases. So,
this leads to this feeling that it's not
sustainable. That it [music] can only go
so far. And so, even though you are
seeing resilience among some retailers,
people are confident that it's not going
to last forever.
>> Let's talk about some of those single
names some morning movers. Seana has
more. Hi, Seana.
>> Hi, John. We start with a big mover to
the upside and that is Snowflake. Shares
are still up nearly 37% in the
pre-market after it raised its full year
outlook and said it signed a massive
deal with [music] Amazon Web Services
for $6 billion. This helping to ease
fears around the software sectors as
investors had grown increasingly worried
about that disrupting the software
[music] industry. Uh turning to the
retailers where we are also seeing a big
upside move there. Wow, Kohl's now up 17
and 1/2% after the retailer [music]
posted a beat, but to be clear,
comparable sales were still down and it
still lost money last quarter. Uh but
both came in better than feared showing
you just how low the bar is after a
brutal sell-off in this [music] name and
in the broader consumer discretionary
space. And we end on Dollar Tree. Those
Those shares also rising now up 18%
[music] in the pre-market. Wow, I can't
believe these moves after the discount
retailer posted a beat and a raise. And
the consumer story here is interesting.
Fewer people are actually going into the
[music] stores, but when they do, they
are spending more. John.
>> Seana, thank you. You can learn a lot
about expectations
with a move like that off the back of
earnings like those. You learn more
about positioning than you did maybe the
numbers themselves.
>> Kohl's sales are still going down. So,
when you start taking a look at a 17%
gain, you start thinking [music] that
bar is on the ground.
>> Let's talk about the mega cap stocks,
the large caps in America, and equity
market at all-time highs on the S&P 500
coming into today. Matt Stucky of
Northwestern Mutual writes in this,
"We're positive on the immediate term on
stronger broadening earnings trends,
reinforcing the case for
diversification. We aren't abandoning
exposure to US large caps, but we are
underweight." Matt joins us now for
more. Matt, explain yourself. I'll ask
politely. Just explain to me, with
stocks at all-time highs, why you don't
like large caps right now.
>> Well, good morning, Jonathan. I think I
would add a comment slightly underweight
is probably to better kind of clarify
our position. And in aggregate, if we
look across different types of equity
exposures in our portfolio, we're more
neutral in terms of our exposure. We
just prefer allocations to things like
small caps and mid caps here, where that
broadening out is taking place despite
higher interest rates this year. You're
looking at small caps and mid caps that
are still on the leaderboards, you know,
above US large caps. And it kind of goes
to show that you don't have to just
concentrate in US mega cap stocks to to
earn, you know, attractive returns in
the equity markets.
>> To your point, we have seen that small
cap outperformance more recently, Matt.
I think last week was another week of
just that. If it's not rates fueling it,
Matt, what is it?
>> It's earnings growth, Jonathan. I mean,
I think if you look to mid-May till
present, um you know, we have seen an
earnings revision growth story in small
cap stocks and mid cap stocks. This
really been absent from 2023 through 20
through the second quarter of 2025. But,
you know, as we started to kind of see
some, you know, healing in the in the
labor market, as we started to see, you
know, growth start to spread out across
the economy a little bit as the Fed
moved rates down about 175 basis points,
you know, that growth has started to
spread to, you know, things like small
caps that are more cyclical. Now, you
know, higher interest rates so far this
year are a headwind to that. But,
despite that move from, you know, 4% to
4 and 1/2 on the 10-year, despite
Um, anticipated cuts from the Federal
Reserve, now, you know, we're we're in
polite company talking about the
potential for hikes. Small cap stocks
have still led this market this year and
I think that's just a testament to some
of the rotation under the surface of the
market.
>> If the Fed were to actually start
signaling that they were ready to hike
rates because we are seeing the highest
pace of core PCE year-over-year
stripping out the pandemic going back to
1992,
would you continue with this thesis?
>> I think that's an interesting question.
It certainly would be a bigger headwind
and we would revisit whether or not some
of the kind of more secular reasons why
we like the small and the mid cap space
might be overwhelmed in the shorter term
by
um by that headwind specifically. Um,
but I think you know, one of the
unappreciated areas that we like about
the story is that you know, the labor
intensity levels of small cap stocks and
mid cap stocks are just materially
higher than than large cap stocks. And
it's so if if over the secular horizon
artificial intelligence is this massive
productivity driver, you have to think
that the the torque in terms of the P&L
and the operational levers potential in
these businesses is a little bit more
outsized. And so to us we like that from
a secular perspective but certainly in
the in the intermediate term these are
more cyclical parts of the market that
are more sensitive to changes in you
monetary policy and financial conditions
that are out there in the economy.
>> Matt, how do you frame out higher oil
prices given the fact that you're in
much more uh consumer exposed areas? I
mean, do you see that as a potential
problem or is it a sign of resilience
that that hasn't been a main topic for a
lot of these conversations?
>> I I think it's it's it's the latter.
It's it's more of a sign of resilience.
I you know, it it it is a risk though
that if this were to escalate further
from here if if instead of you know, 90
to $100 oil we're talking about 125 plus
and that persisting throughout the
summer, you know, that that could be you
know, more of a detriment to the
consumer and and you know, case in point
is kind of look at the six last six
months of you a proxy of national income
which you know, jobs added, how uh many
hours people are working, what they're
being paid for that work. That's running
around, you know, just over 4% or so.
But, if you look at the last 6 months
of CPI, that's pushing over 5% on an
annualized basis. And so, there's some
real income compression happening at the
consumer level for those that don't have
financial assets.
So, if that were to persist, yeah, that
would be an incremental downward
pressure on the consumer. And then so,
that's a that's definitely a watch
point. You know, I think, you know, if
anything, you know, tighter financial
conditions through higher rates, through
higher energy prices,
to me,
it just speaks to maybe it's a little
bit of narrowness coming into the
markets. And we're seeing that under the
surface ever since this conflict kicked
off at the end of February.
>> Hey Matt, it's good to see you. As
always, Matt Stucky there of
Northwestern Mutual. And why he's
underweight the large caps, why the
preference is firmly elsewhere at the
moment, including small caps, which did
pretty nicely last week.
>> Yeah, underweight, not really
underweight. Slightly underweight, maybe
more in a sort of neutral. When you take
a look at the overall portfolio, it's
sort of leaning into some of the more
cyclical areas, which is what we're
seeing this morning. And it's not
because there's such resounding growth
there, it's that earnings have beaten
there, too, amid very low expectations
already baked into the price.
>> Operation economic fury. Have you seen
this message from the Treasury Secretary
Scumpesson just moments ago?
>> I didn't receive that one. Operation
economic fury, is this about how they
continue to go against the Iranian
regime by their new OFAC sanctions
against them?
>> Trucks aren't getting paid.
Police aren't reporting for work. Cargo
lines shut down. Iranian economy and
currency are in freefall.
Goes on and on and on.
>> Well, look, the Iranian economy is not
doing well. But, the issue is, of
course, this is existential for this
regime. So, they potentially can outlast
the domestic pressures that are going to
be on this White House.
>> This market is not paying attention to
that this morning. Just about unchanged
on the S&P 500 going into the open and
about. The cash open just around the
corner. Coming up tomorrow, we'll catch
up with Max Kettner of HSBC, why Max is
still Max bullish this market. Lindsey
Rosner of Goldman Sachs, Alex Ohmen of
Barclays. And don't miss this, the
Chevron CEO, Mike Wirth, joining the
program tomorrow morning. Looking
forward to that. From [music] New York
City this morning, good morning. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.